Guardians
"Legends are carved across history by the brave."
Guardians are warriors forged in the Traveler's Light, a final hope in a universe falling into Darkness.
Chosen from the dead by the Traveler's Ghosts, Guardians are those rare few able to wield the Light as a weapon. For centuries they have defended the City. But that defense cannot hold forever.
Now, with the Darkness rising again, the time has come to retake our lost worlds. The Guardians who lead the way will save humanity - and become legend.


Titan
"Strive for honor. Stand for hope."
Titans are warriors - heroic defenders of the Light, channeling the gifts of the Traveler to wage war on the Darkness. Steadfast and sure, Titans face any challenge head-on, blunt force instruments of the Traveler's will.


Ghost Fragment: Titan

/ Tighten that strap.
/ Eh?
/ The gardbrace is loose. Could slip.
/ Huh.
/ It's new?
/ Agema. Type 1. 
/ How's it hold up? I tried using Agema at the Gap, remember? It didn't - well, what's this?
/ A Ghost!
/ Yes. Light be with you.  
/ Excuse me, little Ghost - Tubach, pass me my helmet - thank you. Little Ghost, what are you doing here?
/ It's just looking around.
/ Where's your Guardian?
/ I don't think it has one.
/ Well, any servant of the Light is welcome among us. We are Holborn's Host, and I'm Holborn. The City's hand on Mars.
/ Tubach.
/ That's Tubach, my second. One of the finest Titans of the City. Now see here, little Ghost, on my shoulder? That's the mark of Holborn's Host. Record it. The twelve-pointed star. One for each of the - oh well, off it goes! It doesn't look well.
/ We should get moving.
/ A Ghost without a Guardian. I remember when I was risen, you know. When I woke in that wreckage, to see my Ghost hovering there, its light in my eyes, like an angel. And it said - 
/ This story again.
/ Disrespectful youngster.
/ Youngster? I could be older than you, Tibon!
/ True. The gardbrace is fine now. Stop worrying at it. Will you take the Jigoku?
/ Thought I'd take the long rifle. Bayle has the Jigoku.
/ Good. That Ghost - what do you think is wrong with it? It's echoing something ancient, an Old Earth language. You know what that Ghost reminds me of, flitting about over there? 
/ I don't.
/ The time Ghosts from Jagi's Host came back without them. Remember - they got in that fight at some point east of the Caspian? Seven Ghosts, damn near silent, buzzing with some sort of corruption. Drifting back to the Tower, one by one. Scared the Speaker well enough. 
/ I remember. A long time ago. Jagi tells the story differently.
/ Well. We all grow old. In our way. Little Ghost! Come back here!
/ It's not going to make it, wherever it's going.
/ I want to talk to it. Little Ghost! 
/ Lyssa and Bayle are probably there already. 
/ Cabal move slowly. We've got time. 
/ But the Warlocks have had a vision.
/ Yes. That new one, what's her name. Ingora?
/ Ikora.
/ She's always been hasty. I've faced these Cabal before. I know 'em like I know my own armor.  
/ Message from Lyssa. "At the Dust Palace, now. All quiet."
/ See? All quiet. Why not come with us, little Ghost? We are looking for the old Warmind here, and the one who guards it.


Hunter
"Our old worlds have grown feral - rabid beasts with teeth of rust and ruin. But such beasts are meant to be tamed. Or broken."
Hunters stalk the wilderness beyond the City, harnessing the Light to reclaim the secrets of our lost worlds. They are daring scouts and stealthy killers, expert with knives and precision weapons. Hunters blaze their own trails and write their own laws.


Ghost Fragment: Hunter

She leaves the Sparrow and climbs a long way across spars of volcano rock and between vents of blue fire. Down below the Ishtar ruins spark with skirmish light but the guns seem as distant and brief as the constant starfall and the brooding crater high above. She is alone on the rock. She goes on with her head down so as to fight the sense that she is going to fall up off the world and burn like an inverse meteor.
The message that brought her to this place had no sign but she could hear Cayde in it. Draksis in the Cinders it said. Is it true? 
And also: Remember your promise.
At dawn she finds a sentry and kills it with her knife. Its throat bleeds gas. She takes its post and lays out her bullets one by one on the rock as if to make a count of all the years she has been waiting. Her rifle is near as long as she is tall. She lies down by her bullets and uses them to kill the other sentries one by one until at last they understand the thunder and the Shanks rise up angry from the Cinders below to seek her out.
She leaves the rifle and walks across the naked obsidian into the swarm firing from the hip as she goes, each kick of the old revolver a word, Draksis, Draksis, Kell of Winter, Kell of hate, lord of the kingdom of her vendetta. Her jaw aches. She used to imagine biting out his throat with armored teeth.
The stone smokes around her where the arc fire lashes it and the shrapnel guns throw up leaves of obsidian like glass butterflies. She shoots her bandoliers dry and a team of Vandals in glassy stealth leap up to rush her with knives but she raises her hand and burns them down with the golden gun, laughing, crying out Draksis, Draksis, I am come!
She kills them all and takes the next ridge, high above the Cinders. She can see the blue-green pools and the cave mouths where the Vex lights dance. And there among them, gowned in smoke and ash, is the long shark shape of a Ketch, a Wintership, the Kell's ship, come down to nest.
She could go down there now and finish this. But she made a promise.
A Captain jumps her. She throws two knives into his armor and then staves his chest in with her own Ghost, wrapped up in her fist like a stone.
"Tell the Vanguard," she says to her Ether-spattered fist. "Tell them Draksis is here."
Her Ghost looks up at her in silence. When she makes no move to go down the cliff towards the ship it blinks once, in its own way, and makes a soft sound, like a sigh, like relief.


Warlock
"We have found new ways to weaponize curiosity. Pathways into the darkness."
Warrior-scholars of the Light, Warlocks devote themselves to understanding the Traveler and its power. A Warlock's mind is an arsenal of deadly secrets, balanced between godhood and madness. On the battlefield, those secrets can shatter reality itself.


Ghost Fragment: Warlock

Why did I set her on the trail?
You try and try and try to explain, but no one ever understands. No one who's not a Warlock. Who hasn't spent a dozen years scouring the ruins for one string of symbols, one clean code, one black talon. Titans just make a hmphing noise, if they've stayed awake. Hunters clean their nails with their knives and look at you like you've grown a third eye.
But when you've spent your life searching through arcana for ancient power, you have the urge to reach out and educate others. Especially if you've had one too many.
Nah, she's not my type at all. We've played dice, cards, war games, you know, the usual stuff. I'd never tried to show off before. I don't know what came over me.
I had a broken vertebrae in my pocket that I'd borrowed from - yes, borrowed, I was going to put it back - what do you think you are, my conscience? It was a fossil, that means mineral replacement, a rock, basically. They can survive a few hours in my pocket. Do shut up.
The Cryptarchs weren't going to miss it. Everyone knows the Ahamkaras were hunted to extinction. There's nothing to be afraid of anymore.
Think of how mysterious this system is, I said. How much life sprang up when the Traveler came. Like the Ahamkara. Do you know the legends? The dragon that made promises? And I pulled out the fossil with a flourish - 
She pulled out her knife and started to pick the dirt from her nails. That set me off.
You could never have brought down one of these, I said. Ever. Not the greatest Hunter, not the brawniest Titan.
Her eyes narrowed. She said, Oh? Is that so? And I saw right then that she wasn't going to pass on the challenge.
I've murdered a Guardian, I thought. She's going to die. It'll be my fault.
And I looked at the piece of spine in my hand and wondered - why did I say that? What moved me to such pride?


Ghost Fragment: Warlock 2

My name is Eriana-3, disciple of the Praxic Warlocks, marked by the Cormorant Seal. We came here under one banner, united in a host of thousands, to claim the Moon. But the battle goes against us. I have taken a prisoner and this is the record of its interrogation. If I transgress in your eyes I ask for your forgiveness.
[sound of current or discharge]
/Eriana. It responds to pain.
It responds to the Light. Hurt it again. Monster, heed me. Who is your master with the sword?
[static event]
I can hear it. In my head. The swordbearer's name is CROTA. Record that.
/Should I burn it again?
No. I think you're only feeding it. I will touch its mind. Ghost - help.
They call you Wizard. You must be ancient. I think you value power very much. Will you still be powerful without this piece of your mind?
Tell me how to kill Crota.
[static event]
It showed me the battle. It showed me Wei Ning dead on Crota's blade. It showed me how Crota killed a Guardian with a screaming knife hammered out of his own Ghost.
So I will take a piece of its mind, and ask again.
Tell me how to kill Crota.
[static event]
Incredible. Where? Where is his throne? Where is the twilight world under the dead star eye?
/Eriana there's word from the company in Mare Imbrium. Crota is upon them. Half a hundred dead. They need us.
Tell me where! Tell me how! TELL ME!
[static event]
/Eriana what did it say - 
It showed me how it did this, just exactly this, to an Awoken man, the knives arranged by its will, like little silver ships, like Ghosts - 
It laughed at me. It said we were the same.
/Crota marches with a thousand Knights and they say the sky above Mare Imbrium has turned into green fire. They are dying in numbers I cannot bear to repeat. He kills them one by one with a sword that eats their Light. Eriana, we have to do something - 
Kill the Wizard. Scatter the ash. It has nothing but lies to offer.
Get your Sparrows. We have Light and fury. That will be enough.


The Guardian
&lt;transmission 7484e_8 / Saladin Forge / tower actual / rebinding&gt;
... to answer your question, when it came time to reach out, to find a Guardian to take on this mission, there was only one choice.
- They stood against the Vex in the Black Garden, and grounded that place to Mars.
- They went against the Hive in the dark below, working with Eris Morn to undermine Crota, the Hive God.
- The Reefborn made use of the Guardian in their search for the criminal Skolas, as I understand.
- And, of course, it was the Guardian that led the assault on the Taken King's Dreadnaught. 
All of the after-action reports I've shown you about the Taken War, the calm state of the system... we have this Guardian to thank.
I've attached more details, if you want to read evaluations from the Vanguard. Just skim Cayde's. He's... not very biased, here.



Human
"This was our world, our solar system. We were here first. And no matter what the darkness brings, we will be here at the dawn."
Humans are survivors, tough and resilient, descended from those who built a Golden Age only to see it ripped away. Now, after an age of retreat and desperate struggle, they fight to take back their solar system and claim a new future.
There are those who believe the Traveler chose Earth for a reason. Now it is humanity's obligation to prove itself worthy of the Traveler's faith.


Ghost Fragment: Human
From the diaries of Commander Jacob Hardy, pilot, Ares One
The mission is a go. Crew of three: Mihaylova, Qiao, myself. Immediate departure at the next Hohmann window to Mars. The MREs and return ships will chase us out.
How do I feel? I said at the press conference I felt privileged. Historians will read this diary, but it won't take their insight to tell the world that I'm terrified. It's the human reaction.
What I wish I could convey is the - the exhilaration. That's the biggest thing. I'm not a spiritual man, but I've always believed there's something transcendent about spaceflight. Something pure. We go out there because we can. Because it's who we are.
Now we go because we have to. Because the unknown came to us. In fourteen months we'll be face to face with it, and by the time we arrive, it should be active again - just like it was active on Jupiter, and Mercury, and Venus.
I wonder what happens if it doesn't stop at Mars. I wonder if it'll leave us there in the sand, and come to Earth, and do here what it's done everywhere else.
I hate that we're carrying weapons. I understand the necessity. But I hold to my belief: there's something beautiful out there.
It's up to us to reach it.


Ghost Fragment: Human 2
From the diaries of Commander Jacob Hardy, pilot, Ares One
Everybody asks about the words.
The truth is I'm not much of a poet. Ares One didn't leave us with bandwidth for anything except blunt competence. We came in perilously hot, trying to select a landing site through the chaos of thickening atmosphere and turbulence that bloomed off the target. A twenty minute round-trip lightspeed delay to Earth meant we could only count on ourselves.
When the number three engine went diagnostic during the second course correction, I thought we might go catastrophic.
But Qiao brought us in. Mihaylova brought us in. I just flew the ship.
The Ares One excursion vehicle was built for thin winds and icy dust. We came down into a storm: the breath of God, a ripple of change rolling down off the artifact. We aborted on three sites and finally I took us into powered hover and brought us down on reflexes and instinct.
Then we ran the checklists, suited up, and left the vehicle.
There was a script, and it's true, I botched it. I got my boots down and I made the most famous gaffe in human history. Said the first thing that came to mind: a warning to the others.
"We're walking into a rising wind."
I didn't mean to say anything immortal. I just thought it'd be useful to know.


Ghost Fragment: Human 3
From the diaries of Commander Jacob Hardy, pilot, Ares One
The hike from Ares One.
You've watched it. Everything was recorded. I think you can get it in full immersion, now, and fly around like a hummingbird. I'll add what I can.
The route was planned. We all went together - the CEV and Ares One itself had enough automation to go home alone in the event of crew loss. Whatever we'd find at the artifact, it needed the human element.
We carried rifles. They made us heavier and slower and probably less safe. I think the argument about the rifles can be left for another time. What's important is -
It turned out well. Look at me. Look at us! You're talking to a ninety-year-old man. A ninety-year-old who's never been sharper. I'm miles ahead of every cognitive benchmark.
What's happened to me is good. What's happened to all of us is good. When we crested that rise and made visual contact with the artifact I don't think any one of us dared dream that it would end this well.
We went to Mars at the cutting edge of human civilization. And it wasn't our weapons that won the day.
It was our ship. Our training. Our camaraderie. Our belief that if we just reached out to the universe, not to grasp for profit or security but with an open hand, we would be elevated.
We were right. That makes me so happy. To this day.


Ghost Fragment: Human 4
From the diaries of Commander Jacob Hardy, pilot, Ares One
Three human beings stood on a high ridge and saw the shape of the future. Saw rain strike a millennia-old desert. Felt the air sweeten with oxygen and warm water and the beginnings of life.
I am sometimes asked if I felt something die. The end of the era of human self-sufficiency.
I don't know how to answer that question. I do know that I was changed. Nobody could experience that kind of wonder and remain unchanged. The decades since have proven that to me.
I knew I'd never fly another mission like that. I recognized the need for a new love. That's why I threw my fresh cognitive skills into understanding the Traveler. How can one entity so quickly and utterly remake an entire world? Fifty years later, I'm conversant in high mathematics, particularly topological thoughts and the slippery irreality of Light. I'm involved in a project to study the Traveler's terraforming actions right now.
But I still enjoy the interviews. I like going back to that mission.
It makes me unspeakably happy to see how well it all turned out. And it makes me happy to remember I was there.


Ghost Fragment: Human 5
Hope
Hope.  And standing with strangers.
That’s what I remember.  Hope churning beneath my skin, assuring me there was a place besides this place.  A realm that would nurture us, not kill us.  The Earth was ruin.  Chaos and madness and death.  We were standing on the Earth.  Where I am now.  But why am I still here?  It was my turn to leave.  I remember.  I was waiting with others like me, and the ships would soon take us away.
But to where?  Where was this hope?
I must have known.  There had to be a name, coordinates.  Except all of that is forgotten.  Other than my absolute conviction in salvation, nothing remains.
The Traveler.
I remember that now.
Which was...
What?
I don’t know.  Something has stolen my words, the imagery.  But I still remember what it promised us...
The universe.
Yes.
Creation held in our hands.
But I was here for a reason.
And what would I surrender, just for the faint chance to remember what that good reason was.


Awoken
"The others sing this song of Light and Dark. We, together, have transcended such unimaginative limitations."
It is said that the Awoken were born in the Collapse, descended from those who tried to flee its wrath. Something happened to them out on the edge of the deep black, and they were forever changed.
Today many Awoken live in the distant Reef, aloof and mysterious. But others returned to Earth, where their descendants now fight for the City.
Earthborn Awoken who venture out to the Reef, hoping to learn its secrets, find no special welcome from the reclusive Queen.


Ghost Fragment: Awoken
Reports from a derelict vessel boarded in the first known voyage to the Reef
Eleven hundred meter length.
Active gravity generation.
Residual heat. Fast neutron scatter.
Designation code: CORRUPTED
Date of commissioning: Unknown 
Origin point: Unknown
Presumed to have collided/merged with one-kilometer comet: assessment based on depth of hydrocarbon crust covering the hull, water content of soil, atmosphere of oxygen and carbon dioxide with isotopic ratios placing the comet in the Oort population.
Low-light foliage grown from terrestrial stocks, mirrors focusing starlight into growth chambers...resident fauna...five insect species, plus rats descended from uncertain ancestors. 
Surface heavily wooded until recently, unknown event triggering firestorm...seventy percent of world forest consumed, atmosphere laced with smoke and particulates...free oxygen in short supply.
No distress calls noted. No evidence of crew or passengers on exterior.
Interior scans inconclusive.
Cleared to attempt approach.


Ghost Fragment: Awoken 2

I was nothingness. If I existed before, I existed as possibility, as potential, stretched thin across the aether. And maybe there was a body that looked like my body, complete with a soul that could be confused for someone rather like me. What I am now was not yet real. And then I was born, and the universe was free to begin.
Others were present at my birth.
A great ceremony had just begun. Because newborns are selfish beasts, I assumed I was the object of attention.
I didn't notice the singing until the singers fell silent. And then She appeared.
She was above me. Ethereal and handsome and elegant. I assumed my face was like her face and that odd idea gave me strength enough to smile.
"Secrets," she said. "Creation is built on secrets and the encryptions that keep those secrets safe."
I made my first sound. It meant nothing but she understood it as a question.
"We are a beautiful creation," she said. "And we must keep ourselves very safe."


Ghost Fragment: Awoken 3
Fear.
Fear.  That’s the only vivid memory left in me.  It’s the moment when my fear was so thick and urgent that I gave up breathing.  I stopped pretending to think.  How I remained on my feet was a mystery, because the terror was bearing down on me, like a mountain about to crush my soul.
But I have to ask, “What was terrifying me?”
Darkness ruled the sky.  The world around us had shattered, and it seemed vanishingly unlikely that we would outlive this one awful day.  Yet the fear didn’t come from the surrounding mayhem and despair.  The source was inside my skin.  I was utterly terrified of my own awful nature.
And which part scared me?
Inside me was an essence woven from beyond.  Was I Awoken before this?
She was still in my head. I could hear her song growing fainter.
Gone?
Not yet.
A new crippling terror was taking over.
I was focused entirely on my fear.  But I had to make an effort.
And it occurred to me then that nothing in the universe was more dangerous than human hubris.
I still had this Other within? But the human side was what mattered:  Weak and foolhardy, sure to fail in the next moment.
That’s why I was afraid.
Then someone spoke.
Maybe it was me.  I don’t remember.
I was trying to focus, and a new thought took me: My soul lay between those two entities.  And that’s how I am still:  The boundary, the seam.
The friction.
And that’s when the fear began to fade.


Exo
"Ask yourself: what threatened your Golden Age ancestors so much that they constructed the Exos to defend themselves?"
Built for a long-forgotten struggle, Exos are self-aware war machines so advanced that nothing short of a Ghost can understand their inner functions. They remain ciphers, even to themselves: their origins and purpose lost to time.
Whoever built the Exos fashioned them in humanity's image, gifting them with diversity of mind and body. Many of the City's Exo citizens live and work alongside their organic brethren. But others fight again, re-forged in the Light of the Traveler to serve as Guardians.


Ghost Fragment: Exo

- which in the end is just a matter of substrate chauvinism. It doesn't matter if the system thinks with flesh or superconductor or topological braids in doped metallic hydrogen, as long as the logic is the same. And our logic is the same. Yours and mine.
If I am a machine then so are you. If you are not a machine then neither am I. Exo minds are human. It is incontrovertible.
You understand? I'm going to take that slack-jawed stare as understanding. 
Now here's the real question. Why are Exo minds human? What's the design imperative? Why does a war machine - yes, absolutely, I am a war machine, built by human hands; and you are a survival machine built by the engine of evolution. Don't interrupt me.
Why does a war machine have emotions? Why should a war machine have awareness? These are not useful traits on the battlefield. Don't flatter yourself. They are not useful. So why should the Exo mind mimic the human architecture so closely?
You know what I smell on you? I smell the stink of anthropocentrism. I think you think that there's only one way to think. That's why the Exo mind is so human, you presume. Because all higher thought converges.
My friend, you should meet the Vex. There is nothing human in them.
Now. This is what I believe happened, back in the time before any Exo can remember. It explains everything.
I think someone wanted to live forever.


Ghost Fragment: Exo 2

Hi. Thanks for your interest. I'm recording this for posterity.
Warlock thanatonauts die and come back with insight. I'm going to attempt the same process to get at buried memories. Specifically, I'm going to fire a charged particle beam into my head and see what comes out. We Exos have been around a very long time. I want to know what's in there.
My Ghost is standing by to repair me.
Okay. Three two one
STAG echo six SWORD sierra nine SERPENT
We are falling into the world. Everyone is on fire. There's a ship above us but it's coming apart just like a flower, alloy and fusion flash, pierced through and through - 
The voice says Atmospheric interface. Trajectory nominal. Rabid two three you are outside the window. (I think I am the voice)
I can see the whole earth below me and the sky we are falling out of is black without stars.
Ghost, shoot me again.
RAPID four RAMPART four RATCHET tango eight zero
We are on the ice. This is elsewhere and elsewhen. There is a mighty aurora and it is reflected in the ice so I walk between two fires although the one below is cracked and full of corpses. I have and am a weapon.
Up in the sky there is a hole in Jupiter and it tears at me when I look at it. It tears at me. It is hungry. Maybe the hole is not in Jupiter but in me.
CROWN castle candor cobalt coral
Ghost bring me back.
serrate sulfur ANATHEMA amber actual aspen
Ghost bring me back now.


Ghost Fragment: Exo 3
Shame
Shame.  Did I ever suffer exhaustion?  Someone asked the question.  Or maybe I asked it of myself.  Then it looked at me.  This moment was real.  I told it what every Exo knows:  “What can’t touch you has no strength over you.  And there’s no place for fatigue to latch onto me.”
But shame is a different affliction.
I’m a soldier.  I was forged by other hands and forced into the role of warrior.  According to my scars, I fought and fought.  Besides bits and flashes, every battle has been forgotten.  But I have this clear, awful sense that others died.  In my unit, every soldier was killed except for me.  Yet despite a thousand chances to be shredded and scrapped, here I stood, no weapon in my hands, making fists out of habit but with nothing to hit.
I’d fought to save the Earth.  That was my sense of things.  But our world was collapsing around us, and every soul was doomed.  Even cockroaches and microbes would die.  And being an expert in the art of losing battles, I saw no ending to this battle but another loss.
And I was ashamed.
The shame took hold of me.  It shook me.  Shame stole my mass and my resolve.  Suddenly I felt like a feather, like a breath, like any small nothing ready to be lost in the first breeze.
But in the midst of that despair, a fresh thought took hold.
I was cursed.
And do you know what a curse is?
It is stubborn.  A curse delivered by the gods will hold you when everything else has given up on you.  And it was obvious that survival was my eternal curse.  A thousand battles and how many were won?  Judging by the evidence, none.  And that’s why the shame was chewing at my ceramic guts.  But despite the horrific losses, I had endured.
Closing my eyes, I forced my fists to open.
“This isn’t over,” I said.  To this enemy, to myself.  To the wind threatening to carry me away.
“This war isn’t done with me.”



Ghosts
"In its dying breath, the Traveler created the Ghosts...To seek out those who can wield its Light as a weapon. Guardians, to protect us, and do what the Traveler itself no longer can."
Built from machinery and the Traveler's Light, Ghosts guide their Guardian companions in the quest to reclaim our solar system.
Every Ghost seeks out its Guardian among the ancient dead. The Ghost serves as scout, librarian, and mechanic, waking ancient machinery and cracking alien codes. In the right situations, a Ghost can even save a Guardian from death.
But Ghosts are not immortal. As far as Guardians know, every loss is irreplaceable.


Dead Ghosts

Battered and drained of their Light, these Ghosts are nevertheless valuable for the information they preserve. Their recovered memories may well prove vital to the City's survival.
The problem of dead Ghosts troubles the City's scholars. Are new Ghosts still being born? Or is the number of Ghosts dwindling? Will there come a day when no more remain - an end to the rise of new Guardians?
If that day is coming, then the City faces a desperate race against time to heal the Traveler before attrition takes its toll.


Ghost Fragment: Ghosts

Beyond.
It is a place, a place casting shadows and emotion.
It's a real place, I know.
One hot blue sun, say. And other suns too. Five? I like seven better. What I'm recalling is a giant star with a family of six smaller suns, and you could spend days and nights counting all of the planets circling those suns...except there are no planets. Not anymore. The powers in charge have carved up all of the worlds, and maybe a brown dwarf or two for good measure. With that rubble, they fashioned a topologically creative enclosure, a twisting of space and time sealed behind doors that admit only those who know the magic words. The bones of a hundred planets have been cut smooth and laid out like a floor, a polished and lovely floor creating vast living spaces. A floor bigger than ten thousand worlds, catching the fierce glory of the seven suns. For light, for food. For beauty. And nothing escapes. Not heat, not gravity. Not even the faintest proud sound.
It could be anywhere. It can live in the cold between galaxies, or folded up inside matter, near enough to touch right now...
I remember it and maybe it's exactly as I describe it. Seven suns wrapped inside magic. Or it's something else entirely, perhaps. A place still fat with life. An abundance of sentient souls, some decent, maybe a few of lesser quality, and everybody stands about or floats about, or they bounce between dimensions. The point is that the residents of this hidden realm live inside a bottle so perfectly hidden that they can't see beyond their own borders. Which shapes a mind in very specific ways.
But, Beyond is their name for a mysterious, doubtful realm that they can't see.
Which is us, of course.


Ghost Fragment: Ghosts 2

Two more scans and she could move on to the elevated grid. There wasn't really anything new other than the delta to sea level, but at less than 30% of the way through 2^128 scans, even a distinction without a difference could feel like a brand new shell.
"Cassiopeia!"
So numb after months with just her own scans for company. She didn't even pick up on another Ghost being this close. "Obverse? Wait. I'm sorry. You're... Obsidian! Wow, how long has it been?"
"Well, I mean..."
"I know. It's been 6.8 years. It's just an expression."
Obsidian floated closer. "That's okay. It HAS been a while. I guess you haven't found yours yet?"
Cassiopeia projected glumness. "Not yet. But I haven't been looking on Mars for that long, at least! I'm optimistic."
"You should be! I was just at the City last year. A lot more of us are starting to find our Guardians latel— what's that?"
Cassiopeia resolved to run a full-range self-diagnostic before the next grid. Two Ghosts within twenty meters and she didn't sense either one? Something was off.
The new arrival chirped and spoke up. "Hello, you two! I'm glad ~identify(OBSIDIAN)~ to see a friendly face! I haven't been myself lately."
Obsidian looked at Cassiopeia. He read as nervous. She probably did, too.
"I was beneath the Blind Watch for a while. A long ~SIVA.MEM.GH404~ while. It was fun! There were puzzles. No one was alive down there, though."
Cassiopeia's scan of the new Ghost returned nothing amiss. "Are you okay, friend?"
"I'm great! Something got in me but the Light ~if (LIGHT) then WARNING~ burned it away. It's gone forever, now! ~consume: FAILURE replicate:FAILURE enhance:FAILURE~"
There was silence for a full three seconds. Then Obsidian spoke up, his words coming quickly.
"Well, great to see you again, Cassiopeia! Good luck!" He zipped away.
Cassiopeia watched him disappear into the horizon. "TWO self-diagnostics," she muttered.



Guardian Abilities
"There is a Light in you from which no Darkness can hide."
Only Guardians have the gift of the Traveler's Light - the ability to channel its energies to project vast power into the world. Even without a firearm, a Guardian is a radiant engine of destruction.
While these abilities rise from within, Guardians master their power in different ways. Titans understand the Light as a force to hone through practice and strict discipline. Hunters roam and explore in order to learn, using dangerous methods to survive the wilds. And Warlocks study the Light and its inner mechanisms, confronting unfathomable mysteries in the search for transcendent might.


Ghost Fragment: Abilities
From Lord Saladin's Induction Speech
Nothing born is born strong.
I know I began weak, the same as you. I don't care if you're an Exo, staring at that number and wondering where you've come from. Or a Human hungry to understand the ancient world that left you for dead. Or an Awoken reborn in the very essence of what your people hide from. Together, we're the pointed end of a long stick of happenstance. Change one ripple in an ancient ocean and we would never have been granted the Light within us, or the good Ghosts that want to help us.
Humble origins.
Every world begins as a big pebble lost among trillions of pebbles. Every worthy sun was once cold hydrogen spread thin across the vacuum. Even the universe, this cosmic garden that surrounds us and awes us...this monument to Creation was once the size of an apple seed. And everything that's splendid and great stands at the end of incalculable chance and mayhem.
Yes, you have talents. Enormous, wondrous powers. But you should put the smirk away. Do you know what a Guardian is? Not yet. Your name is another pebble. You are a cold apple seed.
But you will grow.


Striker
"At close quarters a fist is better than any gun."
Striker Titans charge into close combat, armored in Light and wielding fistfuls of thunder.
Striker tactics depend on shock and disciplined aggression. They must awe and scatter the enemy, or risk being overwhelmed. Fellow Guardians prize their ability to draw fire as they shatter the enemy line.


Defender
"The wall against which the Darkness breaks."
Defender Titans are immovable anchors, trained to absorb punishment and control the flow of battle.
Armed with unflinching conviction and an armory of Void techniques, Defenders block the enemy's movements, shrug off their fiercest weapons, and rally fellow Guardians to strike back.


Sunbreaker
“Forge the fury of undying suns.”
Some Titan orders predate the City, born of a darker time, when Light was an untamed weapon.  The Sunbreakers brought honor to the wild, never seeking the safety of the City.  Bound by an oath, they live as mercenaries, seeking battles and alliances beyond the Walls.  Now the Light of their fire has at last found rank among the City.
Wield the Hammer of Sol with honor, Titan, it is a thing of legend, both past and future.


Gunslinger
"A lone wolf who lives for the perfect shot."
In the end, doesn't it all come down to you and your gun?
Don't see much else to say about it. That's just truth.


Bladedancer
"Beautiful lethality, relentless style."
There's something to be said for the blade. A knife won't jam. A knife won't run dry. A knife is very, very quiet.
Leave the noise and fire to others. There's work to be done, out there in the dark - monsters that deserve death, delivered quickly, silently, and without mercy.


Nightstalker
“Draw from the Void.  Light the way.”
A lone hunter stalks the night, firing arrows into the Darkness.  There is no hiding, no escape.  In the distance, the beast falters, tethered to the void.  The killing blow comes without hesitation, without mercy.
There’s truth in the edge of Light, and beneath that truth a deeper truth, hidden from all but a few.
That truth is this: monsters need not fear the night.
Do not hunt the monster.  Become the monster.


Voidwalker
"Those who have stared into the Void are not bound by the laws of space and time."
The Traveler came out of the void that surrounds all things. Thus we know that the void is full of power. Thus we enter the void without fear.
Small minds will call your abilities blasphemous. They will compare you to the abominable Wizards of the Hive.
But you will not be held back. Gifted with the Traveler's Light, armed with the secret physics of a lost age, you will tear reality asunder.
You will fear nothing, and nothing will not fear you.


Sunsinger
"There are flames that even the Darkness cannot extinguish."
These are dark times. Humanity stands on the brink of extinction. We will carry fire into that darkness - a beacon to guide the way, and a pyre to consume our great enemy. 
The Light saved us from death and forged us into weapons. We seek to understand it, to embrace it, to consume and be consumed by it. We hope to become radiant.
Our fellow Guardians need our power. Our civilization needs our strength.


Stormcaller
“Harmony within, hurricane without.”
Meditate.  Focus.  Draw the static from within.  The Arc is inside all life.
You must feel it take hold, let it flow through, but not consume you.  You are a conduit.  Between sky and earth.  Electricity and matter.  Life and death.
You are a weapon.



Punch

The brute strength of a Titan's melee offers a full-force response to immediate danger.


Stab

With their finely tuned reflexes, Hunters are naturally gifted with knives. The make and shape of the perfect knife is a matter of endless debate.


Palm

Curiosity gets a Warlock into trouble, and force of will gets a Warlock out. Even novices can shear reality with a single deadly gesture.



Flashbang Grenade

An explosive grenade that disorients the enemies it damages, leaving them vulnerable to gunfire and close combat.


Pulse Grenade

A grenade that periodically damages enemies inside its explosion radius. An effective tool for area denial.


Lightning Grenade

A grenade that sticks to any surface, periodically emitting bolts of lightning.


Magnetic Grenade

A grenade that attaches to enemies and explodes twice. Designed to crack the armor of hard targets.


Spike Grenade

A grenade that attaches to any surface and emits a torrent of damaging Void Light.


Suppressor Grenade

An explosive grenade that prevents enemies from using abilities for a short time.


Thermite Grenade

A grenade that sends forward a burning line of fire.


Skip Grenade

A grenade which splits on impact, creating multiple projectiles which seek out enemies.


Arcbolt Grenade

A grenade that chains bolts of lightning to nearby enemies, tidying up groups of hostiles.


Flux Grenade

A grenade which deals additional damage when attached to enemies. Practice your toss.


Incendiary Grenade

An explosive grenade that catches enemies on fire, causing additional damage over time.


Tripmine Grenade

An explosive grenade that sticks to surfaces and detonates when enemies pass through its laser trigger.


Swarm Grenade

A grenade which detonates on impact, releasing multiple drones that seek nearby enemies.


Voidwall Grenade

A grenade that creates a horizontal wall of burning Void Light.


Solar Grenade

A grenade that creates a flare of Solar Light which continually damages enemies trapped inside.


Firebolt Grenade

A grenade that unleashes bolts of Solar Light at nearby enemies.


Fusion Grenade

An explosive grenade that causes bonus damage when attached to its target.


Vortex Grenade

A grenade that creates a Vortex which continually damages enemies trapped inside.


Scatter Grenade

A grenade that splits into many submunitions and covers a large area with explosions.


Axion Bolt

A bolt of Void Light which forks into smaller bolts on impact, seeking out enemies.


Storm Grenade

A grenade that calls down a focused lightning storm.



Double Jump

Bend momentum to jump again in mid-air. Leap to even greater heights, or make a quick adjustment while airborne to disorient your foes.


Glide

Break the bonds of gravity and convert your jump into a long, smooth glide. Cross dangerous terrain and float from perch to perch to keep the high ground.


Blink

Rip a hole in space and leap from point to point. Master the Blink, and you will be a fearsome killer - a spectral force, hard to evade and impossible to pin down.


Lift

Leap into a powered jump. The long, slow arc makes you a target, but used carefully, it's a superb way to break contact, gain control of the high ground, or set up devastating ambushes.



Fist of Havoc

Leap forward and smash the ground, obliterating everything nearby. You will be a thunderbolt - but use your fury carefully. If there are survivors, you will surely draw their wrath.


Ward of Dawn

Open a pocket in the universe, an impregnable fortress for you and your allies. The mighty Ward allows Guardians to hold key points and gather their strength in the face of overwhelming opposition.


Hammer of Sol

Forge your Light into a raging inferno of Solar energy, and pull  forth a blazing hammer from the fire.  Cloaked in flames, launch your hammer at enemies from afar, releasing a devastating eruption of Solar fire on impact.  You burn with the intensity of stars, and no shadow is safe from your Light.


Golden Gun

Draw a hand cannon burning with Solar Light and loaded with three rounds of sunfire. Aim steady and keep your wits about you. You are a Gunslinger, and this is what you live for.


Arc Blade

Set aside your weapons and lose yourself in the blade trance. Arc Light galvanizes your armor and hastens your movements, and when your knife finds a target it discharges a snap of annihilating current. For as long as the trance lasts, you are the very shadow of death.


Shadowshot

Summon the power of the Void to draw back and launch a precision long-range projectile that reaches out and snares enemies with slowing, draining tethers of Void Light.  Shadowshot lets a Hunter's dead-eye precision carve a path to new battles.


Nova Bomb

Channel the Traveler's Light into a bolt of energy with the power of a collapsing star. The devastating Nova Bomb scours the battlefield with ethereal fire - but be careful in its use. It takes precious moments to summon, and it must be aimed precisely to avoid obstacles.


Radiance

Open yourself to the Light. Glimpse, for a few rapturous moments, the truth beyond the powers you wield.
A Warlock in a state of Radiance threatens to slip beyond the bonds of the material, shrugging off physical harm, channeling a torrent of abilities. Some may learn to elevate nearby Guardians, gifting them with power. Others, entranced by the Ghosts' power to reach beyond death, may learn to pluck themselves out of nothingness like the phoenix of ancient myth.


Stormtrance

Focus your Light to call forth a powerful Arc storm, and siphon it, channeling lightning through your fingertips to send it surging between your targets.  A Warlock in Stormtrance is exercising such unbreakable focus that the Arc energy they summon draws them off the ground, the air humming and crackling around them.  Like lightning you bend your path forward through the air, striking down anything too slow escape the storm.




Auto Rifles

All-purpose weapons of war, the standard Auto Rifle is ideal for a number of combat scenarios. Stability is key to controlling fully automatic weapons.


SUROS Regime
Nostalgia as a weapon of war. Style as a hallmark of victory.
Suros engineers designed the Regime using recovered Golden Age schematics. Forced out of production by a crippling shortage of smartmatter, the few remaining models are cherished by those Guardians fortunate enough to wield them.


Hard Light
Ionized polymer synballistic attack platform. The system's lethality is dynamically robust across tactical spaces.
As the City's understanding of Golden Age methods expands, foundries continue to push the cutting edge of tactical armament. The Hard Light prototype is a showcase, built with the rarest recovered materials and the most computationally demanding design methods. The design team included several specialist Exos and at least one Warlock thanatonaut.
In its current iteration, the Hard Light design fires a superheated polymer round with exotic capabilities.


Monte Carlo
There will always be paths to tread and methods to try. Roll with it.
Originally designed as a showpiece, the Monte Carlo's sleek demeanor and intricate firing system make it more than a fashion statement. In the right hands, this beauty puts all the risk at the wrong end of its bayonet.


Necrochasm
"Eternity is very close. Can you feel yourself slipping?"
The Weapons of Sorrow were believed to be nothing more than a myth. But even the darkest myths are born of some truths, and whispers of the Necrochasm have long filled the Light with dread.
It is said the Necrochasm was born in the twilight after Crota’s sword first cracked the Moon. That a lost Guardian’s weapon was altered by the Hive in an attempt to fuse their own dark understanding with humanity’s mastery of war. The result was a weapon that would feed on its owner’s aggression—reaching further when angry eyes drew focus, its hunger rising as it tore through bone and flesh.
Any Guardian who comes across the weapon must ask some very simple questions with endlessly complicated answers: Is your Light bright enough to stand, even briefly, in full gaze of the Hive's abyss? Can it handle what has died and been reborn in those shadows?


Zhalo Supercell
An upcycled torrent of righteous thunder.
When you're out beyond the Wall, sometimes you have to take what you can find, and make it work. Though its original makers and their no-doubt-desperate straits are lost to history, the Zhalo Supercell remains a striking example of what a Guardian can do with some outdated tech, a deep command of fundamental Light, and a spark of inspiration.


Fabian Strategy
Wait for enemy to make a mistake. Die. Stand by for Ghost Resurrection. Repeat as necessary.
“Good evening, Banshee-44!”
“Howdy.”
“Doing well, thank you. ...Actually, I had a bit of difficulty today.”
“Uh...”
“The problem with a historical engram is, even if I can figure out when the engram was encoded, that still doesn't tell me when the contents were written. Or even when the events described by the writer take place.”
“Uh huh.”
“This particular engram is heavily degraded. Encoded Mid-Golden Age, allegedly written by someone named Plutarch, a historian who in turn is writing about someone named Fabius Maximus. But who were they? When did they live? In what kind of warfare was this 'Fabian Strategy' applied?”
“The whatnow strategy?”
“Fabian Strategy. It apparently involves attrition tactics and avoiding direct conflict until an enemy makes a mistake.”
“...Huh.”
“'Huh' indeed!”
“...But with Ghost res—“
“Oh, this was long before Ghosts. I think... Banshee? Where are you going?”


Scout Rifles

The preferred weapon of seasoned marksmen, the Scout Rifle is a single-shot precision firearm. Favoring accuracy above all else, the Scout Rifle packs increased stopping power to counter its low rate of fire.


MIDA Multi-Tool
Select application: Ballistic engagement. Entrenching tool. Avionics trawl. Troll smasher. Stellar sextant. List continues.
Few weapons are balanced this precisely. Once you get a feel for the Multi-Tool it will sit weightlessly in your hand. Firing it will feel less like an action and more like an extension of your will.


The Fate of all Fools
The wise man knows his fate. The fool merely finds it.
The weapon gathers data on the target from the impact and spall of solid body shots, setting up a devastating final hit.


Touch of Malice
“Let them feel every lash, every curse, every touch of malice that they first dealt to me.”
Here am I, with the power to craft from my enemy's darkest secrets a weapon that could wound them at their core!
So what stays my hand?
When I behold the interiority of these cold, cold fragments, I see blind, squirming creatures. Every wound they give, they feel also upon themselves. Every bite they tear from the Light only deepens, never fills, the raging emptiness behind their terrible mouths.
The voices are as loud as ever. My nightmares just as bitter. My coal-black hatred burns as hot. But I feel something else now. Could it be...
No! I refuse it.
I will build this weapon.


The Jade Rabbit
What kind of harebrained scheme have you got in mind this time?
Like many weapons of the Dark Age, the Jade Rabbit was created from hastily reassembled—and often poorly understood—Golden Age technology: in this case, kinetic low-atmosphere propulsion systems in use on Luna settlements. Even the weapon's casing is cut from the plasteel bulwarks of the First Light installation.
The significance of the markings: 玉兔, or “Jade Rabbit,” are unfortunately lost to history.


Boolean Gemini
Fight your way!
City foundries produce a wide variety of weapons in an attempt to anticipate Guardians' ever-changing needs on the battlefield. But no Guardian can carry all guns at all times.
Enter the Boolean Gemini. Designed by a think tank of Guardians and foundry representatives, the Gemini was designed to be two guns in one, with a flexible design that allows Guardians to toggle between distinct combat styles for maximum efficiency.


Tlaloc
Release the storm. Hold nothing back.
“Master Rey.”
“Gunsmith... What brings you here?”
“Workin' on a custom piece.”
“Are you?”
“Yep. For a Warlock.”
“Mm. And how are you finding the work?”
“You know. It goes and comes. Memory ain't what it was.”
“Yes.”
“Good to be back in the shop, though.”
“I'm glad of it. Well, then, I suspect you'll find some of my recent research quite interesting.”
“S'why I'm here.”


Pulse Rifles

The Pulse Rifle is designed for precision fire and tight shot grouping. Three-round bursts provide added punch with reduced recoil compared to fully automatic weapons. Skilled shooters often walk the burst from the target's center of mass onto the head.


Bad Juju
"If you believe your weapon wants to murder all existence, then so it will."
There must be a structured, mechanical explanation for this weapon's hunger for combat. There must be. But none has been found.


Red Death
Vanguard policy urges Guardians to destroy this weapon on sight. It is a Guardian killer.
Only rumors tell of the mad Guardian who fashioned this butcher's tool. But its power is undeniable, and fear is a formidable weapon.


No Time To Explain
A single word is etched onto the inside of the weapon's casing: “Soon.”
Novarro's timeline analysis indicates the weapon is the fabled Exo Stranger's Rifle, enhanced at a future point in this continuity and then sent back to this present.
Deliah's timeline analysis indicates the weapon was built by Praedyth, who based it on his own version of the Exo Stranger's Rifle, and then set it adrift in a time ripple.
Hari's timeline analysis indicates the weapon was built by beings of unidentifiable origin, and arrived here by pure accident.
Inachis's timeline analysis indicates the weapon originates from Earth, late Golden Age, and will eventually be lost to time ripples once again, where its systems will degrade and be replaced until our recent past acquires it as the Exo Stranger's Rifle.
As for me... I think it's safe to say the weapon is proving far more fun than we could have hoped.


Hand Cannons

Sturdy and reliable, Hand Cannons have long been a preferred tool for self-defense. Their low rate of fire and modest accuracy is more than made up for by their ease of handling and superior stopping power.


Hawkmoon
Stalk thy prey and let loose thy talons upon the Darkness.
The Hawkmoon is a true gunslinger's weapon - a smooth sidearm that makes every bullet count...some more than others.


The Last Word
"Yours...not mine."
The Last Word is a romantic weapon, a throwback to simpler times when steady aim and large rounds were enough to dispense justice in the wilds of a lawless frontier. Of course, some might say that time has come again.


Ghost Fragment: The Last Word

I'm writing this from memory - some mine, but not all. The facts won't sync with the reality, but they'll be close, and there's no one to say otherwise, so for all intents and purposes, this will be the history of a settlement we called Palamon and the horrors that followed an all too brief peace.
I remember home, and stories of a paradise we'd all get to see some day - of a City, "shining even in the night." Palamon didn't shine, but it was sanctuary, of a sort. 
We'd settled in the heart of a range that stretched the horizon. Wooded mountains that shot with purpose toward the sky. Winters were harsh, but the trees and peaks hid us from the world. We talked about moving on, sometimes, striking out for the City. But it was just a longing.
Drifters came and went. On occasion they would stay, but rarely. 
We had no real government, but there was rule of law. Basic tenets agreed upon by all and eventually overseen by Magistrate Loken.
And there you have it...no government, until there was. I was young, so I barely understood. I remember Loken as a hardworking man who just became broken. Mostly I think he was sad. Sad and frightened. As his fingers tightened on Palamon, people left. Those who stayed saw our days became grey. Loken's protection - from the Fallen, from ourselves - became dictatorial. 
Looking back, I think maybe Loken had just lost too much - of himself, his family. But everyone lost something. And some of us had nothing to begin with. My only memory of my parents is a haze, like a daydream, and a small light, like the spark of their souls. It's not anything I dwell on. They left me early, taken by Dregs.
Palamon raised me from there. The family I call my own - called my own - cared for me as if I was their natural born son. And life was good. Being the only life I knew, my judgment is skewed, and it wasn't easy - pocked by loss as it was - but I would call it good.
Until, of course, it wasn't.
Until two men entered my world. One a light. The other the darkest shadow I would ever know.


Ghost Fragment: The Last Word 2

The man I would come to know as Jaren Ward, my third father and quite possibly my closest friend, came to Palamon from the south.
I was just a boy, but I'll never forget his silhouette on the empty trail as he made his slow walk into town.
I'd never seen anything like him. Maybe none of us had. He'd said he was only passing through, and I believed him - still do, but life can get in the way of intent, and often does.
I can picture that day with near perfect clarity. Of all the details though - every nuance, every moment - the memory that sticks in my mind is the iron on Jaren's hip. A cannon that looked both pristine and lived in. Like a relic of every battle he'd ever fought, hung low at his waist - a trophy and a warning.
This man was dangerous, but there was a light about him - a pureness to his weight - that seemed to hint that his ire was something earned, not carelessly given.
I'd been the first to see him as he approached, but soon most of Palamon had turned out to greet him. My father held me back as everyone stood in silence.
Jaren didn't make a sound behind his sleek racer's helmet. He looked just like the heroes in the stories, and to this day I'm not sure one way or the other if the silence between the town's people and the adventurer was born of fear or respect. I like to think the latter, but any truth I try to place on the moment would be of my own making.
As we waited for Magistrate Loken to arrive and make an official greeting, my patience got the best of me. I shook free of my father's heavy hand and made the short sprint across the court, stopping a few paces from where this new curiosity stood - a man unlike any other.
I stared up at him and he lowered his attention to me, his eyes hidden behind the thick tinted visor of his headgear. My sight quickly fell to his sidearm. I was transfixed by it. I imagined all the places that weapon had been. All of the wonders it had seen. The horrors it had endured. My imagination darted from one heroic act to the next.
I barely registered when he began to kneel, holding out the iron as if an offering. But my eyes locked onto the piece, mesmerized. 
I recall turning back to my father and seeing the looks on the faces of everyone I knew. There was worry there - my father slowly shaking his head as if pleading with me to ignore the gift. 
I turned back to the man I would come to know as Jaren Ward, the finest Hunter this system may ever know and one of the greatest Guardians to ever defend the Traveler's Light...
And I took the weapon in my hand. Carefully. Gently.
Not to use. But to observe. To imagine. To feel its weight and know its truth.
That was the first time I held "Last Word," but, unfortunately, not the last.


Ghost Fragment: The Last Word 3

It was the fourth night of the seventh moon.
Nine rises since any sign.
Trail wasn't cold, but lukewarm would've been an exaggeration.
Jaren had us hold by a ravine.
The heavy wood along the cliffs' edge caught the wind, holding back the cold and the rush of water muffled our conversation.
We'd seen dual Skiffs hanging low as they cut through the valley.
Wasn't known Fallen territory, but anymore that's a dangerous assumption.
There were six of us then.
Three less than two moons prior, but still, one more than when we'd first turned our backs to Palamon's ash.
We took a rotation for watch during the night.
Movement was kept to a minimum and communication was down to hand signals and simple gestures.
We could hold our own in a fight, but only the dead went looking for one—a hard truth that cut in direct opposition to our reasons for being so far from anything resembling civilization, much less our safety.
The Skiffs had spooked Kressler and Nada, and, in truth, me as well. But, looking back, I think we were all just grasping for any good reason to turn back.
Not because we would—turn back—but because it seemed to be our only real hope, and I think we all knew it.
Forward. Where we were headed—into the unknown. And following the footsteps we were. It all just started to feel like a never-ending dead end after a while.
Jaren never wavered though. Not once.
At least not to any noticeable degree.
It was his drive, his conviction, that kept us going.
And—it's hard to think on—but if I'm honest, it was his death that rekindled my own fire. A fire that was all but exhausted on that cold night.
He seemed confident we were close.
But more than confident—sure. He seemed sure.
No one else felt it—our own confidence, and any enthusiasm we'd had was set to wither soon as Brevin, Trenn and Mel were gunned down.
The Ghost—Jaren's Ghost—never said a word to any of us. Just hung there. Always alert. Always judging. Not us, per se, but the moment. Any moment.
I never got the sense it thought of us as lesser. More that it was guarded, wary.
We knew it could speak. We'd overheard them a few times. Just brief words, and no one ever pressed the subject.
From time to time I caught its gaze lingering on me, but always assumed the attention was a result of the bond Jaren and I had. He was a father to me. At the time I didn't know why he'd singled me out as someone to care for. Someone to protect. After all the loss, I welcomed it, but looking back—taking in the arm's length at which he kept the others—I guess I should've known, or at least suspected there was more to it.
We all woke that night, closer to morning than the previous day.
A crack of gunfire split through the wood. Then more.
Far off, but near enough to pump the blood.
A familiar ring. "Last Word." Jaren's sidearm. His best friend.
Then another. A single shot, an unmistakable echo calling through the night. Hushed, cutting.
One shot, dark and infernal. Followed by silence.
We crouched low and quiet. Listening. Hoping.
Jaren was gone. Off on his own.
Maybe we were closer than we'd allowed ourselves to believe.
Too close.
He'd gone to face death alone.
I couldn't admit it—not at the time—but he thought he was 
protecting us.
After such a long road—years on its heels, a trail littered with suffering and fire—maybe he just couldn't take the thought of anymore dead "kids," as he called us.
The echoes faded and we all held still. No way to track the direction. No sense in rushing blind.
What was done was done.
The cadence of the shots fired told a story none of us cared to hear.
"Last Word" it hadn't been. And somewhere in the world, close enough for us to bear absent witness but far enough to be a dream, Jaren Ward lay dead or dying. And there was nothing to be done.
Hours passed. An eternity.
We held our spot, but as the sun rose the others began to fade back into the world. Without Jaren there was nothing holding us together. No driving force. Vengeance had grown stale as a motivator. Fear and a longing to see more suns rise drove a wedge between duty and desire.
By midday I was alone. I couldn't leave. Wouldn't.
Either I would find Jaren and set him at ease, or the other would find me and that would be a fitting end.
Death marching on.
But then, a motion. Quick and darting. My muscles tensed and my hand shot to the grip of my leadslinger.
Then a confirmation of the horrible truth I had already accepted, as Jaren's Ghost came to a halt a few paces in front of me.
I exhaled and slumped forward. Still standing, but broken.
The tiny Light looked me over with a curious tilt to its axis, then shot a beam of light over my body. Scanning me as it had done the very first time we met.
I looked up. Staring into its singular glowing eye.
And it spoke...


Ghost Fragment: The Last Word 4

Then.
Palamon was ash.
I was only a boy – my face caked in soot, snot and sorrow.
I’d assumed Jaren, my friend, our Guardian, the savior of Palamon, would always protect us – could always save us...
But I was a fool.
Jaren, and the others, only a handful, but still our best hunters, our hardest hearts, had left three suns prior. Tracking Fallen, after the bandits had caused a stir.
The stranger – the other – arrived the following day.
He rarely spoke. Took a room. Took our hospitality.
I was intrigued by him, as I was Jaren when he’d first arrived.
But the stranger was cold. Distant. Damaged, I thought.
But I wasn’t afraid. Not yet.
Only a child, I knew the monsters of our world to walk like men, but they were not. They were something alien. Four-armed and savage.
The stranger was polite, but solemn.
I took him for a sad, broken man, and he was. Though, at the time, I didn’t understand how that could make one dangerous.
As with Jaren, father made an effort to keep me away from the stranger.
It wouldn’t matter.
As the silhouette approached, fear held tight.
The dark figure towered over me. Looking into me – through me.
He smiled. My knees weak. All lost.
Then, he turned and walked away.
Leaving ruin and a heartbroken, terrified boy in his wake without a second glance.
I’ve been chasing that stranger’s shadow ever since.Now.
We stood silent, the sun high.
Seconds passed, feeling more like hours.
He looked different.
He seemed, now, to be weightless – effortless in an existence that would crush a man burdened by conscience.
My gaze remained locked as I felt a heat rising inside of me.
The other spoke...
“Been awhile.”
I gave no reply.
“The gunslinger’s sword... his cannon. That was a gift.”
My silence held as my thumb caressed the perfectly worn hammer at my hip.
“An offering from me... to you.”
The heat grew. Centered in my chest.
I felt like a coward the day Jaren Ward died and for many cycles after.
But here, I felt only the fire of my Light.
The other probed...
“Nothing to say?”
He let the words hang.
“I’ve been waiting for you. For this day.”
His attempt at conversation felt mundane when judged against all that had come before.
“Many times I thought you’d faltered. Given up...”
All I’d lost, all who’d suffered, flashed rapid through my mind, intercut with a dark silhouette walking toward a frightened, weak, coward of a boy.
The fire burned in me.
The other continued...
“But here you are. This is truly an end...”
As his tongue slipped between syllables my gun hand moved as if of its own will.
Reflex and purpose merged with anger, clarity and an overwhelming need for just that... an end.
In step with my motion, the fire within burst into focus – through my shoulder, down my arm – as my finger closed on the trigger of my third father’s cannon.
Two shots. Two bullets engulfed in an angry glow. 
The other fell.
I walked to his corpse. He never raised his cursed Thorn – the jagged gun with the festering sickness.
I looked down at the dead man who had caused so much death.
My shooter still embraced by the dancing flames of my Light.
A sadness came over me.
I thought back to my earliest days. Of Palamon. Of Jaren.
Leveling my cannon at the dead man’s helm, I paid one final tribute to my mentor, my savior, my father and my friend...
“Yours... Not mine.”
...as I closed my grip, allowing Jaren’s cannon, now my own, to have the last, loud word.


Thorn
"To rend one's enemies is to see them not as equals, but objects - hollow of spirit and meaning."
Augmented through dark practices, Thorn was once a hero's weapon. Its jagged frame hints at a sinister truth: a powerful connection to the unutterable sorceries of the Hive. 
The legend of Thorn is bound to the rise and fall of Dredgen Yor, a Guardian whose name is remembered with disgust and shame. The weapon was thought destroyed...but rumors of its existence still haunt the wilds.


Ghost Fragment: Thorn
The Rose
The noble man stood. And the people looked to him. For he was a beacon - hope given form, yet still only a man. And within that truth there was great promise. If one man could stand against the night, then so too could anyone - everyone.
In his strong hand the man held a Rose. And his aura burned bright.
When the man journeyed on, the people remembered. In his wake hope spread. But the man had a secret fear. His thoughts were dark. A sadness crept from the depths of his being. He had been a hero for so long, but pride had led him down sorrow's road.
Slowly the shadows' whisper became a voice, a dark call, offering glories enough to make even the brightest Light wander. He knew he was fading, yet he still yearned.
On his last day he sat and watched the sun fall. His final thoughts, pure of mind, if not body, held to a fleeting hope - though they would suffer for the man he would become, the people would remember him as he had been.
And so the noble man hid himself beneath a darkness no flesh should touch, and gave up his mortal self to claim a new birthright. Whether this was choice, or destiny, is a truth known only to fate.
In that cool evening air, as dusk was devoured by night, the noble man ceased to exist. In his place another stood. 
Same meat. Same bone. But so very different.
The first and only of his family. The sole forbearer and last descendent of the name Yor.
In his first moments as a new being, he looked down at his Rose and realized for the first time that it held no petals: only the jagged purpose of angry thorns.


Ghost Fragment: Thorn 2
The Bloom
TYPE: Transcript.
DESCRIPTION: Conversation.
PARTIES: Four [4]. Three [3] unidentified [u.1, u.2, u.3], One [1] unconfirmed.
ASSOCIATIONS: Breaklands; Durga; Last Word; Malphur, Shin; North Channel; Palamon; Thorn; Velor; Ward, Jaren; WoS; Yor, Dredgen; 
//AUDIO UNAVAILABLE//
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS.../
[u.1:0.1] Can I see what you got there?
[silence]
[u.1:0.2] Yer cannon...can I see it?
[beat]
[u.2:0.1] I know you?
[beat]
[u.1:0.3] Not that I can say.
[u.2:0.2] And you wanna hold my piece?
[beat]
[u.1:0.4] Just that I never...seen one like it.
[beat]
[u.2:0.3] No, you haven't.
[u.1:0.5] Looks dangerous.
[u.2:0.4] Seems, maybe, that's the point.
[u.1:0.6] Suppose so.
[u.1:0.7] Can I see it?
[u.2:0.5] Not likely.
[silence]
[u.1:0.8] Where'd...where'd you find it?
[silence]
[u.1:0.9] You hearin' me?
[silence]
[u.3:0.1] He asked you question.
[silence]
[u.2:0.6] Didn't find it. Made it.
[u.1:1.0] Heh. Helluva touch you got then. You a 'smith?
[u.2:0.7] I look like a 'smith?
[u.1:1.1] Looks can be deceiving.
[u.2:0.8] Got that right.
[u.1:1.2] There a problem?
[u.2:0.9] Doesn't need to be.
[u.1:1.3] Glad we got that cleared up...Now, about that piece.
[silence]
[u.2:1.0] Been to Luna?
[u.1:1.4] Excuse me?
[u.2:1.1] The Moon. You been?
[u.1:1.5] Nobody's been.
[u.2:1.2] That a truth?
[u.1:1.6] That's a fact.
[u.2:1.3] Funny you'd make that distinction.
[u.1:1.7] Truth is you must think you're some kinda something special. With that attitude. The way you're just dismissin' us like you we're nothing...like we ain't even here.
[u.1:1.8] Fact is...You ain't near as rock solid as you figure. Fact is, special's only special 'til it's not.
[silence]
[u.2:1.4] The bones say otherwise.
[u.1:1.9] Speak straight.
[u.2:1.5] You say "nobody." Bones say otherwise.
[u.1:2.0] What bones?
[u.2:1.6] All of them.
[u.1:2.1] What're you gettin' at?
[u.2:1.7] Too many to count.
[u.1:2.2] You trying to get a rile outta us? Was only making conversation.
[u.2:1.8] You really weren't.
[u.4:0.1] We got a smart one here.
[u.2:1.9] Experienced more than smart. But experience has its advantages.
[u.1:2.3] Experience tell you to lip off to strangers just tryin' to make talk?
[u.2:2.0] Keep insisting and maybe we will.
[u.1:2.4] Talk?
[u.2:2.1] Have words.
[u.1:2.5] Ain't that what we're doin'?
[u.2:2.2] My conversations tend to be a bit louder.
[silence]
[u.1:2.6] That a threat.
[u.2:2.3] A truth.
[u.1:2.7] Who the hell you think you are?
[u.2:2.4] According to your facts, "nobody." Yet, here I sit.
[u.1:2.8] Don't matter much how pretty yer cannon is. You keep it up, we'll see just how loud you like to get.
[silence]
[u.1:2.9] You done talkin' now? Guess he knows his place, boys.
[u.2:2.5] Ever have a nightmare?
[u.1:3.0] You playin' games? Or just thick?
[u.2:2.6] I know you have. This world? Can't help, but.
[u.1:3.1] I don't have nightmares. I give 'em.
[u.2:2.7] You are a goddamn clich&#233;. The picture perfect bandit.
[u.2:2.8] Hearing your voice - the things you're saying, the shade of the hard man you pretend to be...
[u.1:3.2] Ain't no shade.
[audible crack]
[audible crack]
[audible crack]
[silence]
[u.2:2.8] Sit down.
[silence]
[u.2:3.0] Sit. Down.
[u.2:3.1] Your mouth just got your friends dead.
[u.2:3.2] This is what happens when you bore me. And right now...
[u.2:3.3] I'm so very bored.
[u.1:3.3] Wha...No listen...
[u.2:3.4] Shhhhh.
[u.1:3.4] But...but...you're a...you're one of them...A Guardian, right?
[u.1:3.5] You're supposed t'be one'a the good ones.
[u.2:3.5] "Supposed to be?" Maybe I am. Maybe this is what "good" looks like.
[u.2:3.6] Anymore, who can tell?
[u.1:3.6] I...
[u.2:3.7] You wanted to see my prize.
[u.1:3.7] No...I...
[u.2:3.8] Look at it.
[u.1:3.8] I...
[audible sobbing]
[u.2:3.9] Whimpering won't stop what comes next.
[u.2:4.0] Look...
[audible sobbing]
[u.2:4.1] Look at it.
[u.2:4.2] Open your eyes.
[audible sobbing]
[u.2:4.3] Not many get such a clean view.
[u.2:4.4] The bone...You see it. Jagged, like thorns.
[u.2:4.5] I used to think of it as a rose...
[u.2:4.6] Focusing on its bloom.
[u.2:4.7] But the bloom is just a byproduct of its anger.
[silence]
[u.2:4.8] You have nightmares?
[audible sobbing]
[u.2:4.9] Ever seen a nightmare? Ever opened your eyes and realized the horror wasn't a dream? The terror wasn't gone?
[u.2:5.0] I've seen nightmares.
[u.2:5.1] They live in the shadows.
[u.2:5.2] They've been watching.
[u.2:5.3] I thought...It's foolish, I know...but I thought I saw a way.
[u.2:5.4] That maybe we could win. Maybe we could survive.
[u.2:5.5] But once you step into those shadows, it's so very hard to walk in the Light.
[u.2:5.6] Or...maybe I just wasn't strong enough.
[u.2:5.7] Maybe.
[u.2:5.8] But I feel strong now.
[audible sobbing]
[u.2:5.9] I stole the dark.
[u.2:6.0] Or, maybe it stole me.
[u.2:6.1] Either way, here we are.
[u.2:6.2] And I'm hungry.
[u.2:6.3] Its hungry.
[u.2:6.4] You have no Light beyond the spark of your pathetic life.
[u.2:6.5] But a spark is something.
[audible sobbing]
[u.2:6.6] Open your eyes.
[audible sobbing]
[audible sobbing]
[audible crack]
[silence]
[silence]
[silence]
/...END TRANSCRIPT///


Ghost Fragment: Thorn 3
A Farewell To Light
TYPE: Transcript.
DESCRIPTION: Conversation.
PARTIES: Two [2]. One [1] Ghost-type, designate [REDACTED] [u.1], One [1] Guardian-type, Class [REDACTED] [u.2]
ASSOCIATIONS: [REDACTED]; Breaklands; Durga; Last Word; Malphur, Shin; North Channel; Palamon; Thorn; Velor; Ward, Jaren; WoS; Yor, Dredgen; 
//AUDIO UNAVAILABLE//
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS.../
[u.1:0.1] You were not always this man.
[u.2:0.1] True.
[u.1:0.2] Then the math says you do not need to remain this man. You can be other.
[u.2:0.2] I am other.
[u.1:0.3] You can be better.
[u.2:0.3] This is better.
[u.1:0.4] That matter, at best, is subjective.
[u.2:0.4] Then what? Lesser.
[u.1:0.5] Some would say.
[u.2:0.5] But what would you say?
[silence]
[u.2:0.6] All we’ve seen and now, here with me, you have no words.
[u.1:0.6] I have words.
[u.2:0.7] But...?
[u.1:0.7] But you will not like them.
[u.2:0.8] There is much I do not like.
[u.1:0.8] More now than ever it would seem.
[u.2:0.9] Heh.
[u.1:0.9] I find no laughing matter in your path.
[u.2:1.0] Only in the journey.
[u.1:1.0] What brought you here was nobility.
[u.2:1.1] And my prize.
[u.1:1.1] That is no prize.
[u.2:1.2] A curse then?
[u.1:1.2] I would say.
[u.2:1.3] And I would disagree.
[u.1:1.3] You are no longer yourself.
[u.2:1.4] I am myself. It’s who I was that’s gone.
[u.1:1.4] Who you were held all the value.
[u.2:1.5] To you.
[u.1:1.5] To the Light.
[u.2:1.6] The Light...
[u.1:1.6] It is all.
[u.2:1.7] It is nothing but a crutch.
[u.1:1.7] One that has held you up.
[u.2:1.8] Only just. And nothing more.
[u.1:1.8] Nothing more? You were a hero.
[u.2:1.9] And yet people still die. Corruption still exists. Light still fades. And Darkness still spreads.
[u.1:1.9] As it will ever be, that doesn’t mean you give in to...
[u.2:2.0] To what? Hope.
[u.1:2.0] This is not hope.
[u.2:2.1] This is peace.
[u.1:2.1] You have blood on your hands.
[u.2:2.2] How’s that any different than prior?
[u.1:2.2] Innocent blood.
[u.2:2.3] Matter of perspective.
[u.1:2.3] That’s the shadow talking.
[u.2:2.4] And am I not.
[u.1:2.4] The shadow?
[u.2:2.5] Ya know... These past cycles, you’ve made an honorable effort. Tried your best to correct my course. But I don’t know it needs correcting.
[u.1:2.5] And if it does?
[u.2:2.6] Could be too late.
[u.1:2.6] 'Could be' is a winding path.
[u.2:2.7] Long way from where I was to where I’m going.
[u.1:2.7] That is my hope. That there is still time.
[u.2:2.8] For?
[u.1:2.8] Corrective measures. The righting of our path. The cleansing of your shadow and a return to the Light.
[silence]
[u.2:2.9] Why’d you pick me?
[u.1:2.9] It doesn’t work that way.
[u.2:3.0] Was I special?
[u.1:3.0] You were.
[u.2:3.1] But only as special as any other.
[u.1:3.1] You are all special.
[u.2:3.2] Seems to contradict the word don’t it.
[u.1:3.2] Not in my estimation.
[u.2:3.3] If we’re all special, are any of us special?
[u.1:3.3] Is that what you want? To be special?
[u.2:3.4] Heh.
[u.1:3.4] You dismiss, but it’s a very serious question. Is that all you’re after? Is all of the death worth that badge?
[u.2:3.5] Am I not already more than the rest?
[u.1:3.5] Looking at you here, now. The smoke, ash and bone at your feet mark you as so much less.
[u.2:3.6] Maybe. And yet here you are.
[u.1:3.6] Meaning?
[u.2:3.7] You have been at my side every step of the way.
[u.1:3.7] Where else would I be?
[u.2:3.8] Yet you disagree so thoroughly with my change in perspective.
[u.1:3.8] If only the change was simply one of perspective. Your “evolution” was no choice. This is not you having come to an understanding after careful considered thought. This is corruption.
[u.2:3.9] The shadows?
[u.1:3.9] The Darkness.
[u.2:4.0] Maybe so.
[u.1:4.0] There is no maybe here.
[u.2:4.1] And you think you can save me?
[u.1:4.1] I rekindled your Light, it falls first to me to aid in its survival.
[silence]
[u.2:4.2] I tire of it.
[u.1:4.2] You must try...
[u.2:4.3] I tire of you.
[u.1:4.3] [REDACTED]...
[u.2:4.4] That is no longer my name.
[u.1:4.4] I will not speak the other.
[u.2:4.5] It doesn’t matter. This is where we part ways.
[u.1:4.5] I will not leave you.
[u.2:4.6] I am leaving you.
[u.1:4.6] Without me, your journey ahead will be more than any one Guardian can handle.
[u.2:4.7] That’s the point. It’s been sometime since you saw me as worthy of walking among those I once called brother and sister. Yet... anymore, I feel as though I am worthy of so much more.
[u.1:4.7] Without me... You will die.
[u.2:4.8] Someday. Won’t be the first time.
[silence]
[u.2:4.9] Consider this my last good deed. I am releasing you of the burden of my deeds, both done and yet to come.
[u.1:4.8] I will not abandon you.
[u.2:5.0] You will. Or I will carve the Light from your shell and leave the carcass of my first and last friend in the dirt of this dull, red world for no one to find.
[u.1:4.9] Then I’ve failed you, completely.
[u.2:5.1] Not me. Maybe the man I was.
[u.1:5.0] He is truly dead.
[u.2:5.2] I believe so.
[u.1:5.1] Belief is not fact.
[u.2:5.3] Semantics I no longer have the patience for.
[silence]
[u.2:5.4] When you speak of me, use my proper name. Tell them of the man that stands before you, not the ghost of the hero I once was.
[u.1:5.2] You will always be [REDACTED] to me.
[u.2:5.5] If you cannot let that man go, you will forever taint his legacy. All the good I have ever done will be washed away in the fire of who I have become.
[u.1:5.3] If you care, there is still some promise within you.
[u.2:5.6] If I am being honest, I care only to give hope to the frightened, huddled masses so that when I come upon them they will have more to lose. Their pain will be greater. Their screams more pure. 
[u.1:5.4] You...
[u.2:5.7] Nothing dies like hope. I cherish it. 
[u.1:5.5] You’re a monster.
[u.2:5.8] Finally, you see the truth.
[u.1:5.6] [REDACTED] is truly dead.
[u.2:5.9] So I’ve said. Long live Dredgen Yor.
[u.1:5.7] This is farewell, but you can only run from your sins so far. In the end, you will die alone.
[u.2:6.0] Maybe so. But I gotta tell ya... I tend to like my odds.
[u.1:5.8] Your tainted “Rose” will not always save you.
[u.2:6.1] Old friend... It already has.


Ghost Fragment: Thorn 4
The Shadow and the Light
TYPE: Transcript.
DESCRIPTION: Conversation.
PARTIES: Two [2]. One [1] Ghost-type, designate [REDACTED] [u.1], One [1] Guardian-type, Class [REDACTED] [u.2]
ASSOCIATIONS: Breaklands; Durga; Dwindler’s Ridge; Last Word; Malphur, Shin; North Channel; Palamon; Thorn; Velor; Ward, Jaren; WoS; Yor, Dredgen; 
//AUDIO UNAVAILABLE//
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS.../
[u.1:0.1] Such Darkness.
[u.2:0.1] Impressed?
[u.1:0.2] Far from it.
[u.2:0.2] To each their own.
[u.1:0.3] His Light is faded.
[u.2:0.3] His Light is gone.
[u.1:0.4] You are an infection.
[u.2:0.4] I am that which will cleanse.
[u.1:0.5] You are a monster.
[u.2:0.5] Heh. An old friend once saw me as the same. He was right, and, had we met earlier, so too would you be.
[u.1:0.6] You’d dare defend yourself – all you’ve done – as anything but monstrous?
[u.2:0.6] No more than a hurricane.
[u.1:0.7] Then you’re a force of nature?
[u.2:0.7] I am all that is right. You may not see it – for lack of looking, or blind ignorance – but I am all that is good.
[u.1:0.8] You’ve just murdered a good man.
[u.2:0.8] He shot first.
[u.1:0.9] Yet you stand.
[u.2:0.9] Guess he missed.
[u.1:1.0] He never misses.
[u.2:1.0] First time for everything.
[silence]
[u.2:1.1] His cannon? Nice piece of hardware.
[u.2:1.2] Well-worn, but clean. Smooth hammer.
[u.1:1.1] It was his prize.
[u.2:1.3] Guess he put too much faith in the wrong steel.
[u.1:1.2] Is that where your faith lies, in steel?
[u.2:1.4] Not for some time. My steel is only an extension. My faith is in the shadow.
[u.1:1.3] Then my Light is an affront to all you are. I am your truest enemy.
[u.2:1.5] One of many.
[u.1:1.4] Would you end me?
[u.2:1.6] Not you. Not now.
[u.1:1.5] The shadow knows mercy.
[u.2:1.7] The shadow knows no such thing.
[u.1:1.6] Then what?
[u.2:1.8] The other.
[u.1:1.7] What other?
[u.2:1.9] The dead man’s charge.
[u.1:1.8] The boy?
[u.1:1.9] You’d end him as well?
[u.2:2.0] If it comes to that... We’ll see.
[u.1:2.0] I won’t let you have the child.
[u.2:2.1] Been long enough now, think maybe he’s a man.
[u.1:2.1] You cannot have him.
[u.2:2.2] Not yet.
[u.1:2.2] I won’t let you.
[u.2:2.3] That you could stop me is an amusing thought.
[silence]
[u.2:2.4] Here.
[silence]
[u.2:2.5] Take it.
[u.1:2.3] Why?
[u.2:2.6] Give the apprentice his master’s “sword.” It is a gift.
[u.1:2.4] You cannot have him.
[u.2:2.7] You fear for his Light?
[u.1:2.5] He...
[u.2:2.8] ...is special.
[u.1:2.6] Yes.
[u.2:2.9] I am aware.
[u.1:2.7] You’re trying to tempt him. You’re feeding his anger.
[u.2:3.0] The gun is a memento, nothing more.
[u.1:2.8] You claim to be a vessel, a hollow shell where once a man stood, but that is just a lie. The man is still in you.
[u.2:3.1] There is no man here, I am now, and for the rest of time, only Dredgen Yor.
[u.1:2.9] “The Eternal Abyss?”
[u.2:3.2] So, not all the forgotten languages are dead.
[u.1:3.0] Hide behind whatever titles you wish, it is all still a fa&#231;ade. No force of nature would play such games.
[u.2:3.3] Games?
[u.1:3.1] The cannon. You wish to tempt the boy. To spur him on and fuel his rage. There is intent there. The actions of a man, monstrous, mad or otherwise... you are nothing more.
[u.2:3.4] And what value does your conclusion bring, flawed as it may be?
[u.1:3.2] That a hurricane can only be weathered, not stopped. Not redirected. A force of nature is uncaring and without intent, but a man...
[u.2:3.5] Yes?
[u.1:3.3] A man is none of those things.
[silence]
[u.1:3.4] A man can be killed.
[silence]
[u.2:3.6] And there it is...
[u.1:3.5] There what is...?
[u.2:3.7] A sliver of hope.


The First Curse
“...is when death becomes an afterthought.”
People always forget about the other one. The first one. They remember its twin, the Last Word, because that's an easier story to tell. But it's not the whole story.
Truth is, there were two of 'em, back then in the lawless days before the City was anything more than a rumor. There are thousands of tales of the fate of The First Curse, which one will you tell?


Ace of Spades
Don't play your hand unless you're sure you have that ace in the hole.
“Heeeeeeey there, Banshee!”
“Whaddya want, Cayde?”
“Just checking in on that thing I asked you to do.”
“I told you, my smuggling days are over—”
“No no shhh no not that! The other thing—”
“What other thing?”
“The custom piece! For—”
“Oh right. Right. Course I’m doing that.”
“Yeah? How's it looking?”
“Did all the design myself. So it's looking good.”
“Is that... an ace of spades?”
“Yep.”


Outbreak Prime

“This is an advanced Golden Age technology tied to the death of some of the Light’s greatest champions. It’s currently being used as a tool of the Fallen to push the limits of bio-evolutionary realities. And you’re kit-bashing it together with projectile-based war systems to make a handheld mechanism that delivers aggressive nano-mites?” –Ghost
“That’s one way to put it. All I know is... when you pull this trigger, one plus one equals zero every time. I’ve done the math.” –Shiro-4


Khvostov 7G-0X
“In battle, you can only count on two things: your comrades and your Khvostov.”
The Khvostov 7G0X was the brainchild of two eras: the Golden Age and the City Age. Shiro-4 used the design schematics for the Khvostov series and a little Guardian ingenuity to craft a modern take on a legendary classic weapon. A fitting tribute to those old weaponsmiths and the newest Iron Lord.


KhvostovField Manual, pg. 1
Khvostov Field Manual, pg. 1
Scrawled in the margins are numerous notes: “Vasili, this man is not fit to write an instruction manual for a garden trowel. Do not worry. I have used my time well, and updated this &lt;untranslatable&gt; with notes that will help you every single day. You are welcome. —Your friend, Dmitri”


KhvostovField Manual, pg. 15
Khvostov Field Manual, pg. 15
“You want feedback, you &lt;untranslatable&gt; goat? Your machine technique for barrel rifling is inconsistent, the trigger assembly hasn't been updated in years, and the weapon shell has all the design aesthetic of a Lenin-era post office.”


Khvostov Field Manual, pg. 17
Khvostov Field Manual, pg. 17
“This is the folly of modern combat thinking, Vasili. We are safe, right? We have no need for soldiers; not anymore! And if we ever do again, they will think clearing a jam in an hour acceptable because a book told them so. That is why I am here. I will tell you different.”


Khvostov Field Manual, pg. 26
Khvostov Field Manual, pg. 26
“Vasili, do not do what this page says. When you see this, cut it out of the manual and throw it into a fire.”


Khvostov Field Manual, pg. 33
Khvostov Field Manual, pg. 33
“When you are trying to field strip your weapon, Vasili, you should use a cleaner of my own design. Recipe follows. DO NOT GET ON SKIN.”


Khvostov Field Manual, pg. 38
Khvostov Field Manual, pg. 38
“And the generals ask why the soldiers no longer have fighting spirit. What spirit can we have when this is what we work with? I make changes, here. Follow.”


Khvostov Field Manual, pg. 54
Khvostov Field Manual, pg. 54
“I’ve been toying with a new design for firing pin interface. See sketch below.”


Khvostov Field Manual, pg. 67
Khvostov Field Manual, pg. 67
“If Ivonovich gives you trouble, remind him who still has a picture of him in a bear suit. He will know.”


Khvostov Field Manual, pg. 74
Khvostov Field Manual, pg. 74
"Upper receiver assembly is over-engineered. Khvostov rifles are not art. They are tools! We can do better. See here.”


Khvostov Field Manual, pg. 78
Khvostov Field Manual, pg. 78
“Lower extension assembly is surprisingly good design. Still think we can improve maintenance. Follow directions below.”


Khvostov Field Manual, pg. 85
Khvostov Field Manual, pg. 85
“Trigger assembly is a mess. Who thought this was a good idea? Use this design, use custom cleaning solution. See huge benefit, overnight. No questions asked!”


Khvostov Field Manual, pg. 86
Khvostov Field Manual, pg. 86
“Auxiliary inspection points here, here, and here. Follow lines. Make sure you follow line 3 very closely. Does not go where you think.”


Khvostov Field Manual, pg. 90
Khvostov Field Manual, pg. 90
“Best advice a manual will give you: tell the people you love that you love them. There. Now you are ready to carry a Khvostov.”


Ghost Fragment: The Last Word 5

TYPE: Transcript.
DESCRIPTION: Conversation.
PARTIES: Two [2]. One [1] Ghost-type, designate [REDACTED] [u.1], One [1] Guardian-type, Class Hunter [u.2]
ASSOCIATIONS: Breaklands; Durga; Dwindler’s Ridge; Last Word; Malphur, Shin; North Channel; Orsa, Zyre [AKA Vale, Dredgen]; Palamon; Thorn; Vale, Dredgen [AKA Orsa, Zyre]; Velor; Ward, Jaren; WoS; Yor, Dredgen; Yor, Shadows of
//AUDIO UNAVAILABLE//
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS.../
[u.1:0.1] Will you fight them? 
[u.2:0.1] The Shadows?
[u.1:0.2] Those who have taken up arms in the name of Yor.
[u.2:0.2] The hope is they are more careful than their inspiration.
[u.1:0.3] Do you believe that will make a difference?
[silence]
[u.2:0.3] No.
[u.1:0.4] Then what will you do?
[u.2:0.4] The Vanguard has an eye on...
[u.1:0.5] The Vanguard have their eyes on many things. 
[u.2:0.5] I’m aware.
[u.1:0.6] Then what will you do?
[silence]
[u.2:0.6] What needs to be done.


Ghost Fragment: Thorn 5

TYPE: Transcript
PARTIES: One [2]. One [1] Guardian-type, Class Hunter [u.1]
ASSOCIATIONS: Orsa, Zyre [AKA Vale, Dredgen]; Thorn; Vale, Dredgen [AKA Orsa, Zyre]; WoS, Yor, Dredgen; Yor, Shadows of
//AUDIO UNAVAILABLE//
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS.../
[u.1:0.1] We have tamed the sickness. Broken it with unwilling sacrifice. 
[silence]
[u.1:0.1] Now we claim our reward. Have you heard the whispers, brothers? Sister? The shadow speaks. All we have to do is listen. Its secrets are a gift. Its gift? Our evolution. The others misunderstand. We are the Weapons of Sorrow – living and free. The hated heroes of this broken age.



Shotguns

There are few weapons that offer the comfort and familiarity of a shotgun. Built for close quarters combat, they provide immediate, violent conflict resolution.


Universal Remote
To the untrained eye this beast is a junker. To the trained eye, however, this junker...is a beast.
It took great care, and an incredible feat of fine-tuning, to craft a weapon that packs a close-quarters punch, yet has the range of a precision rifle. Universal Remote is that weapon.


Invective
"I tried to talk them down. They made a grab for my Ghost. After that it was a short conversation."
Invective was Ikora Rey's weapon of choice during her younger, more rebellious days. An ideal fallback for situations that can't be solved by wit, quick talk, or pure intimidation, this modified shotgun uses a self-replicating magazine to keep its owner well-stocked for any and all trouble that waits beyond the City.


The 4th Horseman
“It’s not a holdout weapon. It’s a pathfinder.”
One look at The 4th Horseman, and the care taken in crafting it, points to the old trophy-driven traditions of the hunt, but this blunt force destroyer wasn’t built for just any game. Its precision tuning allows for full-auto firing, while measured impact timing provides an extra kick at the tail end of each magazine—a needed fail safe designed specifically for the weapon’s intended prey, the biggest game in the system, the Cabal.


Lord of Wolves
"By this right alone do I rule."
Jolyon was a Crow. He'd seen much. More than most. He held the enemy's greatest weapon. Remembered its burn.  Then began tinkering. He liked things. Liked how they worked. Found happiness in finding new avenues through which a thing could function. Not to alter the purpose, but simply to refine it.
The weapon delivered impact with incredible force spread over a range to increase its area of influence. But what if that force was brought to focus in a directed burst. A seasoned marksman with a steady, strong hand could deliver a burn that served less to herd, more to punish.
The feral ones deserved nothing less. The Wolves would have a new master. And that master was fire.


The Chaperone
“My mother had a shotgun we called the Chaperone. Kept us alive out there, before we got to the City.”
Amanda Holliday was born on the road, when the City was nothing more than a whispered prayer. Their only protection was the weapons they could scavenge, build or modify. Weapons like her mother's two-barrel shotgun, with its black and gold filigree far too fine for the world around it. They called it the Chaperone.
That Chaperone lies in a shallow grave with its last owner, but Amanda recalls every detail of its design. And via a partnership with the gunsmiths of Tex Mechanica, she's brought the Chaperone back to life. Though the new weapon is much more powerful than the cantankerous relic the Hollidays used on the road, it bears the appearance, and the name, of the Chaperone that saw the one surviving Holliday safely  to the Last City.


Fusion Rifles

Advancements in directed energy disbursement, gained through the discovery of Golden Age research, led to the creation of stable, field-ready energy-based weaponry. The first implementation of this technology comes in the form of the Fusion Rifle. Users must hold the trigger down for a few moments to charge the weapon before firing.


Pocket Infinity
You cannot shake the feeling that this is less a weapon than a doorway.
Fireteam Tuyet died in the Ishtar Sink, hunting the secrets of the Vex. They must have come too close to something precious, for the Vex descended on them with their typical inscrutable, thorough violence. 
But their sacrifice was not in vain. The data they gathered helped forge the Pocket Infinity. Properly modified, the weapon should be capable of devastating output on just a single charge cycle.
The Infinity's mechanisms have proven difficult, if not impossible, to replicate en masse. It is conceivable that the weapon draws its energy from the Vex networks...an ominous possibility. So be wary with it.


Plan C
Good fighters have contingency plans. Great fighters don't need them.
Sharp reflexes keep you alive on the frontier - but no matter how fast you are, a fusion rifle can only charge so quickly. Enter the Plan C. When you draw the weapon, fast-rise capacitors and a smart induction system prime for firing. The 'ready fire' state only lasts a few moments - but in a gunfight, those moments matter.


Vex Mythoclast
...a causal loop within the weapon's mechanism, suggesting that the firing process somehow binds space and time into...
Some legends live forever. Others are overwritten - reshaped by the sheer will of those who believe that any ordeal can be conquered, any foe vanquished, any god cast down. 
The Mythoclast is a Vex instrument from some far-flung corner of time and space, mysteriously fit for human hands. Its origins, mechanism of action, and ultimate purpose remain unknown. Perhaps it will reveal itself to you, in time...


Queenbreakers' Bow
"A reminder that while so few 'Breakers remain, Her Majesty still stands."
"Queenbreaker" was the label given to the Fallen who first rose to betray the Queen. Their  coordinated attempt on Her Grace's life was quick and violent. Most of the Queenbreakers were eliminated, their line rifles taken as trophies. Some remain at-large.
Known as Queenbreakers' Bows, the very weapons once used in an effort to assassinate the Queen of the Reef are now prized possessions for Guardians—not only for their storied history, but for the chance to get their hands on fully functional Fallen weaponry.


Telesto
Vestiges of the Queen's Harbingers yet linger among Saturn's moons.
PUBLIC KEY 023 629 DWS REGAL
FROM: PLDN KAMALA RIOR [PLDN CMD TF 5.3]
TO: ACT RGNT PETRA VENJ
SUBJ:  S&amp;R REPORT: Saturn XIII
Expanded search of Saturn's nearby moons produced only one notable discovery: A cloud of Harbinger matter collected around Saturn's 13th moon, designation "Telesto." A sample is enclosed for your examination.
Still no sign of primary objectives. Continued survey of the remaining 100,000 km3 of space is underway. But as an Armada Paladin of the Awoken, it is my duty to officially recommend declaration of death of the following: Paladin Yasmin Eld, Paladin Leona Bryl, Paladin Abra Zire, Paladin Pavel Nolg, Techeun Shuro, Techeun Sedia, Techeun Kali, and the Awoken Queen Mara Sov.
Note that as acting regent-commander it is NOT your duty to actually declare these deaths at this time.
MESSAGE ENDS


Sleeper Simulant
Subroutine IKELOS: Status=complete.
MIDNIGHT EXIGENT: Status=still in progress.
V156NNI900CLS002
AI-COM/RSPN: ASSETS//COSMO//IMPERATIVE
IMMEDIATE EVALUATION DIRECTIVE
This is a CENTRAL ASSETS IMPERATIVE (secured/CONFERENCE)
This is an INTERNAL ALERT.
Number of exterior defense breaches has increased by 400% in the past year. Current campus defense protocols unable to keep up with new demands.
Operation MIDNIGHT EXIGENT is NOT YET COMPLETE. Interim response necessity is IMPERATIVE.
Hypothesize that resource GUARDIANS may be leveraged to compensate for CDP inadequacies.
Reassign 12 percent of COSMO assets to new directive: declare IKELOS.
I am calling VOLUSPA and extracting subroutine DVALIN FORGE, to be modified and recompiled to comport to MIDNIGHT EXIGENT parameters.
I am inserting the modified DVALIN FORGE-2 into IKELOS and compiling for immediate implementation.
Execute short hold for partial shutdown and reactivation.
STOP STOP STOP V55NNI900CLS003


Sniper Rifles

The dangers present beyond the City's walls cannot always be met head-on. The accuracy and power of the Sniper Rifle offers the best option for precise ranged attacks. Caliber and make differ, but a good sniper can always remove key threats.


Patience and Time
If you've got it, they'll never see it coming.
Patience and Time is an assassin's dream. Enhanced sensor integration allows for target tracking while aiming down the sight, and those who work with the weapon and explore its deeper capabilities will find light-bending camouflage systems ready to interface with a Guardian's armor micromaterials.


Ice Breaker
Please replace these components if use causes fatal damage: HEAT SINK. MAGAZINE. OPERATOR
The Ice Breaker series was a clandestine project developed by the Vanguard in conjunction with various City weapons foundries. Meant as an exploration of Golden Age weapon technology, the project was scrapped after only a single weapon reached the testing phase. 
The prototypes for the project's lone weapon are considered dangerous and unfit for field duty by the Vanguard. This hasn't stopped daring Guardians from seeking out the Ice Breakers - death, after all, is an occupational hazard.


No Land Beyond
Every hit blazes the path to our reclamation.
Rumors of this weapon's existence sent many a Guardian clawing through the corners of Old Russia, seeking its legend. Some believe its origins predate the Golden Age and served  to liberate the old Earth nation from a terrible cycle of war.
Others believe it a Golden Age relic built to honor the sniper and their artful approach to battle—to lean on the sole power of the long rifle, nest where the enemy cannot see,  trust in the power of calm and know there is nowhere to fall back to.


Hereafter
“Huddled at the mountain's base, we had no choice but to beat our ploughshares into swords once more.”
Once, we had peace. 
This isn't a story about peace.
Then there was darkness, destruction, despair.
This isn't a story about those things either.
This story comes much later.
It's a story about what was here, after,
And what came next.


Black Spindle
“Your only existence shall be that which I weave for you out of sorrow and woe.”
The followers of Crota swing Hammers,
Sing death-songs:
Fatal.
Final.
Absolute.
Ir Halak and Ir An&#251;k laugh at Crota.
Finality is a child's plaything,
Fit for one such as Crota,
They say.
No Hammer for the Unraveler and the Weaver,
But a Spindle, wound with woe.
For their foes,
No end of suffering.


Zen Meteor
“Complete awareness, complete focus. A mind sharpened by diligence to a single deadly point.”
Exo have always known that a machine is capable of bridging the gap between the physical and the numinous. It is from that knowledge, and my collaboration with two Guardians — Hunter Uzoma Vale and the Warlock they call The Stoic — that the Zen Meteor was born.
This groundbreaking weapon uses electroencephalography to draw energy from the wielder's neural activity. It can even, if a certain threshold is met, convert that energy into matter to be used as concussive ammunition.
Or, to be more precise — the more focused the wielder's mind, the more powerful the weapon.


Sidearms

The Sidearms class is made up of lightweight pistols designed for ease of handling and quick-firing. Its antiquated triggering system and engineering make it rare within City limits. 
As it's  long been a staple of the Awoken Royal Guard, perhaps this newly forged alliance between the Reef and the City will see the Sidearm become commonplace within Guardian arsenals.


Vestian Dynasty
"A Reef scout hunts for years—fighting piracy and ancient traps—to crack one cache and claim the weapons within."
Imagine: you live in the largest territory in the system. A huge torus of habitable, explorable space. But there's a catch. That huge space is made up of millions and millions of nooks and crannies. Asteroids. Crumbling derelicts. Debris from dozens of wars. It's a place where you could go for thousands—millions—of miles without ever seeing another friendly face, and yet never once be able to stretch your legs.
Now imagine: you're spelunking across an asteroid, or crawling through a half-collapsed ship that could be hundreds of years old. You won't see enemies coming, not in a tight corner like that. Won't hear 'em or smell 'em either, not in the void. But then you move, or they move, and there you both are.
Rifles, shotguns, they aren't gonna cut it. You don't have room to heft a barrel of that length. Don't have the arm room to throw a knife or a grenade either. But what you do have is a sidearm at your hip. Small enough for a fast draw, strong enough to save your life.
That's why the Queen sends out every last Corsair with a Vestian Dynasty sidearm at our hips. And Vestian Dynasty is what gets us home again too.


Dreg's Promise
"I am a marvel with ten thousand arms."
There is a story, old as time, of he who could catch the stars. Unnamed and eternal, the star-catcher would lead the Fallen, rising from the lowest station to the highest exalted peaks. It is a fairy tale allowed to persist by the four-armed to keep the docked hopeful, placated—even the low may one day ascend.
Myth, fairy tale or a prophecy of what will be, it's best to not take chances. After all, one can't reach across the black to claim dominion over ten thousand stars with ten thousand arms if they die here and now with only two.


Trespasser
“You are not welcome.” –Unknown
“I beg to differ.” –Shiro-4
Trespasser is Shiro-4’s personal sidearm, kit-bashed over the uncounted cycles Shiro-4 spent braving the wilds beyond the City. This light, quick-fire shooter has ended more conversations than it has started. And will end many more before the last war is won.



Rocket Launchers

Rocket Launchers have a limited, devastating payload that provides an excellent countermeasure to heavily-armored ground forces and combat vehicles. There is no better battlefield equalizer. Skilled users often aim for the ground beneath nimble targets.


Gjallarhorn
"If there is beauty in destruction, why not also in its delivery?"
The Gjallarhorn shoulder-mounted rocket system was forged from the armor of Guardians who fell at the Twilight Gap. Gifted to the survivors of that terrible battle, the Gjallarhorn is seen as a symbol of honor and survival.


Truth
"...is where you seek it."
Truth is a cutting-edge rocket launcher developed by Crux/Lomar. Smart warheads calculate and understand the user's intent upon firing.
There may have been a time when warfare in the solar system was dominated by lightning-quick AI weapons and swarms of autonomous munitions. If so, that time is past. The Traveler's Light has given rise to an age of heroes with undreamt power. But there is still a place for cleverly designed machines - and as the City's foundries reclaim the technical prowess of the Golden Age, our machines will become cleverer still.


Dragon's Breath
Burn the world. Burn it all.
From the labs of Feizel Crux and Victor Lomar comes another shoulder assault offering built to match the incendiary fury of a legendary beast &#8212; or at least classic depictions of it. 
Carrying three rockets, each equipped with Solar Flare detonators, its power is believed to far outmatch those of the mythical flying monster, but we're still hoping an actual showdown between the two will put an end to that argument.


Machine Guns

The Machine Gun is an unapologetic weapon of war. Its ability to carry and process large quantities of high-caliber ammunition allows for sustained, focused attacks, making them ideal for the suppression and/or annihilation of hostile forces.


Thunderlord
"They rest quiet on fields afar...for this is no ending, but the eye."
Customized with an experimental induction core, the Thunderlord is a heavy machine gun built for the delivery of sustained punishment.
The weapon's history and mechanism are both shrouded in ritualistic awe. Each round fired is another word in the legend - and the Guardians who bear the Thunderlord will be immortalized in song.


Super Good Advice
This weapon is full of it.
This machine gun's incredible mechanism hints at the wonders of Golden Age technology. Smart rounds report their trajectories to the weapon, and a micro-transmat protocol recalls missed shots directly to the magazine.
Engineers decry the idea that all smart systems spontaneously develop personalities and awareness...but it seems undeniable that Super Good Advice manifests personality, memory, and a certain sass. The truth may lie in the weapon's connection to the legendary Hunter Pahanin, who witnessed the fall of Kabr and became terrified of traveling alone.


Swords
“There is no grace in their making, but we can change that.”
History might come to call it the Great Hive War, but others will remember it as the day the swords came to the City. Luckily Lord Shaxx’s skills and research in all matters of swordplay will help ease this new age of weaponry into the Guardian fold.


Bolt-Caster
Excerpt of a missive from Lord Shaxx to the Tower Cryptarchy
...there must be a way to imbue it with Light. That is Ikora's theory. How glad I would be of her help, but her eyes are occupied with other trials.
Perhaps if I folded another substance into the blade—one that is forged in Light—it might imprint upon the malleable Hadium, share its attributes. But what substance? Ghosts are out of the question. Spinmetal is in the blade already, but its Arc was too diffuse to move the Hadium. Is there a way to refine Spinmetal, distil it to its core elements?
I have little gift for the science of this, but my resolve will not be thwarted. Maybe the Cryptarchs can advise.


Raze-Lighter

“Next order of business... the growing City foundries—”[Bang]
“What madness is this!”
“Lord Shaxx! The Consensus did not—”
“We barely eked out victory at Burning Lake. And now you think we're ready to attack the Moon?”
“We’re preparing—”
“Did you not read my report from Burning Lake? About the Hive's weapons? Those swords, they're like nothing we've ever—”
“Lord Shaxx—”
“Zavala! You can't think this is wise. We need to examine these swords, train against them—”
“That is a matter for the Consensus to decide, old friend.”


Dark-Drinker

Draw close now. Closer. Yes. Let me tell you why you should not fear Willbreaker, the sword of Oryx.
Firstly: Its blade is not dulled by age. Each death it trades for life hones its edge, gives it weight and gravitas and insistence within the vortex of its own totality.
Nextly: Willbreaker transcends liminality. Willbreaker demands a subjugation more diffuse than the simple snick and smash of a physical brink. It does not have to touch you to wound you.
And lastly—and this is critical: To be taken in Willbreaker's grasp is to know true bliss; that is, to be simplified; that is, to be reduced to one's most basic level, shedding all higher-order thoughts of fear or duty or selfishness; that is, to feel only pain.
Now do you see? Now do you understand what you've done?


Nemesis Star
What is the answer, when the question is extinction?
Who, or what, is the weapons foundry known as Nadir? Where did it come from? 
And is the foundry’s name a commentary on its own quality, or that of its rivals? An expression of fatalism? An inside joke?
Do these questions matter next to a weapon as powerful as the Nemesis Star?


The Young Wolf's Howl
"To the first of the new Iron Lords." —Lord Saladin
This is more than a weapon. 
Forged by Lord Saladin within the hallowed halls of the Iron Temple, this sword was intended for you, and none other. 
When you wield it, its burning flames represent the bright light of your valor — and the all-consuming sacrifice that you have promised to make, should you be called to it.
Take up this blade, and teach your enemies to fear the Young Wolf’s Howl.


Abbadon
"I am one with the flame. The conflagration reborn. I am your funeral pyre."
A variant of the Thunderlord outfitted with a prototype fusion modulation device, the Abbadon is built for rapid domination of the enemy. 
Its mechanism is a delicate balance of barely-contained power and brute force. Every round it fires contains the potency of a sun.


Nova Mortis
"From the space between I come. Fragments of stars burn in my footsteps. In my hands I hold Death."
Before he died on the Moon, the Titan who wielded the first Thunderlord created two variants of the mighty weapon. Nova Mortis harnesses the power of the Void. 
Notes found on the original schematic for Nova Mortis reveal its creator worried the weapon was as dangerous to its wielder as it was to those in its sights.



Arc
"A spark can give life...or take it."
The universe is defined by fundamental forces. Complex matter is bound together by deep forces - and in the study of this binding lies the secret of Arc Light.


Solar
"Sometimes the only answer is to burn it all away."
The universe is defined by fundamental forces. Energy is carried by quanta, tiny messengers of change. In the understanding of these messengers lies the secret of Solar Light.


Void
"It's fitting, then, that we have weaponized the unknown."
The universe is defined by fundamental forces. Beneath the world of light and matter lies the vacuum, and the vast dark secrets that it contains. In the understanding of this vacuum lies the secret of Void Light.



Guardian Ships
"It is not enough to defend the City. We must reclaim the stars."
A rare and precious commodity, the jumpships utilized by Guardians are cobbled together from the salvaged wreckage of interplanetary ships built long ago. Only in recent years have the Tower's shipwrights begun working to build new hulls from the keel up. The City's factions are also keen to develop flight capability, whether through salvage or their own shipbuilding projects.
Today, it falls upon each individual Guardian to find and maintain their own craft. Those skilled enough to acquire a ship with off-world capabilities join the front line in the long war to retake what is ours.


Sparrow
"The shortest distance between two points is full throttle."
The Sparrow is a single-passenger, all-terrain thrust bike with one purpose: moving from objective to objective with unmatched speed.
Quick, quiet, and simple to transmat, Sparrows enjoy surpassing popularity among Guardians working in the field.


Lysander's Cry
“Each Guardian wants something: greater speed, a rare weapon, a secret. Learn what it is. Use it.”
According to the Hidden, in the wilderness beyond the City, Lysander rallies his supporters and plots his return. Some whisper of sympathizers in the Tower and hidden gifts for Guardians who honor him.



Glimmer

The programmable matter called 'Glimmer' serves as one of the City's basic currencies. With the right inputs and an energy source, Glimmer can be transmuted into nearly anything. This makes it precious to the City's industries and artisans. That value, in turn, makes Glimmer a useful means of exchange - especially with those who venture beyond the City's walls.
Glimmer passes through an economic life cycle. New Glimmer comes from reclaimed Golden Age caches and technology - whether a tiny mechanism or an underground lode seeded by ancient machines. This expansion of the Glimmer supply drives down the value of Glimmer. But Glimmer is also constantly used by the City's industry, which converts it into necessary components and materials. This sink helps keep Glimmer scarce, and therefore valuable.
Between this inflow and outflow lies the pool of liquidity - Glimmer used as trade currency. Master Rahool in the Tower, for example, sells recovered matter engrams in exchange for Glimmer, since he knows he can use Glimmer to acquire new engrams and keep them flowing to Guardians. 
Newborn Guardians often complain that they should be issued high-quality gear for free - are they not, after all, fighting for the future of the City? Unfortunately, this gear requires resources to manufacture. Guardians must bring in enough Glimmer and other staples, like spinmetal and relic iron, to keep the engine of the City's economy turning. If good times lead to a resource boom, that surplus may help mass-produce advanced gear.


Vanguard Marks

When a terrible threat rises, Guardians look to the Vanguard, the closest thing they have to a command structure. These elite veterans coordinate the reports of roaming Hunters, the analyses of cloistered Warlocks, and the instincts of grizzled Titans into a single plan of action. And when Guardians fight as part of that plan, the Vanguard rewards them.
Vanguard Marks are tokens of favor that earn a trusted Guardian access to the Tower's armories. Listen carefully to the rumblings of Lord Shaxx, and you might come to believe that this system was meant to keep vital warfighting supplies from being wasted in the Crucible. Talk to Commander Zavala, and he will reassure you that the Vanguard Mark system exists for one reason: to get the best equipment into the hands of those who get the best results.
Guardians eager to win Vanguard Marks would do well to participate in Strike missions organized by the Vanguard.


Crucible Marks

The Crucible is a program of relentless live-fire training, hardening Guardians for battles to come. Competition thrives on risk and reward, so Lord Shaxx has seen fit to dispense Crucible Marks to those who excel.
Guardians with a name in the Crucible can spend these Marks on elite gear. Shaxx considers it fitting that the best should earn the best. The City's factions, fond of using the Crucible as an arena to advance their own interests, will also accept Crucible marks in exchange for their equipment.
Guardians eager to win Crucible Marks should fight in the Crucible, with particular attention to those challenges Lord Shaxx deems important.


Motes of Light

The Speaker has no interest in Glimmer, Marks, or the other currencies of the Tower's military functions. But he happily accepts these Motes, points of Light willed into being by an exercise of a mighty Guardian's power.
Some say they will one day become the souls of new Ghosts. Others believe they feed the intricate machinery that the Speaker tends. Whatever the case, the Speaker will happily reward donors with patterns and signs from his collection - more out of gratitude than any mercantile impulse.


Strange Coins

Each coin rings with a faint, sharp hush - as if it has touched the sounds around it with the edge of silence.
These could buy incredible things, in the right hands. Whispers say the faceless creature who sometimes comes to the Tower covets them above all else.


Upgrade Materials

As Guardians buy or salvage new equipment, they learn to tinker and improve. This work requires Glimmer and other material.
Some can be recycled from unneeded gear. Titans favor plasteel, which can be found by disassembling old equipment. Hunters unspool discarded armor into sapphire wire. Warlocks extract hadronic essence from dismantled fieldweave robes. And any Guardian with a sense for weaponry can disassemble old ordnance into weapon parts.
Other materials need to be scavenged on site, generally in the course of Patrols. The Cosmodrome in Old Russia is rich with spinmetal, a fantastically light and strong composite created by rogue colonies of Golden Age machinery that escaped storage. Solar coil systems on the Moon still generate helium filaments. The baffling, possibly Vex-influenced flora of Venus grow spirit blooms. And the surface of Mars offers deposits of ultra-dense relic iron.
The most powerful Guardian equipment transcends ordinary science, entering the realm of Golden Age secrets and the Traveler's power itself. This wargear demands Ascendant Energy and Ascendant Shards - burning fragments of the universal fundament, earned through mighty acts of heroism.
Look for them in daily Story challenges and Raids.


Eververse
“I like your style, Fenchurch. Have you ever considered selling any of these? No? Well, I think the people need to see your work, Fen. I really do. Listen, I have an idea...”
Tess Everis is always on the lookout for new opportunities. So when she crossed paths with the infamously eccentric artist, designer, explorer and Guardian who became known as Fenchurch Everis, Tess knew an opportunity when she saw it.
He brings the creative flair: roving the planetary wastes, gathering rare antiquities, crafting vibrantly new pieces, sharing new customs and techniques. She handles everything else, from business to marketing to managing the often-wayward talent.
Tess brokers Fenchurch's unique finds and offerings to Guardians of the Tower under the banner of the 
"Eververse Trading Co." Dealing exclusively in a rare Awoken crypto-currency called "Silver", Eververse is the first major merchant in the City that is unapologetically dedicated to style above substance. In a society wracked by near-constant war, Tess believes beauty for beauty's sake is a revolutionary idea.


Silver
“Old Neville here woke me in the Martian wastes. Utterly alone, with nothing but our wits— and a lone, silvered coin buried in the sand beside me. This very coin, in fact. What could it signify? A mysterious message? A sign of royal birthright? A key to some ancient puzzle? For all my many adventures, this answer yet eludes me— What's that?”
Long before the Collapse, the Reef settlements used a currency commonly known as Silver— coins with engram-like qualities which could be digitally signed with an individual person's key.
Tess Everis, born in the City after her parents fled the Reef, counts among her most prized possessions an old Silver coin that belonged to her Reefborn grandmother. As the Silver was cryptographically unique, she was stunned to meet an Awoken Warlock named Fenchurch who possessed around his neck a Silver coin of his own, signed with the exact same key as Tess's.  Like all Guardians, Fenchurch has no memories before the first time his Ghost resurrected him. But their Silver coins' shared origin leads Tess and Fenchurch to suspect that they are related.
Fenchurch instantly took to thinking of Tess as a long-lost niece, even assuming her surname, Everis.  Tess loves the Silver that her new partnership with Fenchurch brings— but, though she'd never admit it, she secretly values her newfound family even more.


Chroma
“It's not just about how you fight. It's about how you look.”
Eververse is proud to introduce: Chroma.
This Golden Age lighting technique was recently rediscovered by no other than Eververse's chief creative officer Fenchurch Everis. Using multi-channel heat sinks to accentuate Guardian weapons and armor, Chroma is a style for the fiercely, fearlessly fashionable.




The Traveler

Everything changed with the coming of the Traveler.
It gave us gifts that transformed the solar system and the nature of human life. It ushered in the Golden Age, a time of miracles. But it never shared its deepest secrets.
Where did the Traveler come from? Why did it offer us so much? Did it know it was being hunted across the stars? And why, when the Darkness came, did it choose to stay and fight for us?
Now the Traveler hangs, silent, above humanity's final sanctuary. It may be healing. It may be dying. It gave everything it had to save us. And now its power lies with us, its Guardians.


Ghost Fragment: The Traveler
Dreams of Alpha Lupi
You have lived as invisibly as possible, flicking from solar system to solar system, making grand plans, overseeing the culturing of civilizations, before leaving in a blink. But you have no recollection of ever wanting worship or even thanks from those blessed by you. 
But memory is heavy now. 
It feels like lead and neutronium and electroweak matter fashioned into a moon-sized ball that you must carry as you move.  
Now, your flight is rapid, your vast mind infected with such dread and toxic doubt that you find yourself afraid of the simple act of thought.  
And it is your children you must turn to now, in time of need.


Ghost Fragment: The Traveler 2
Dreams of Alpha Lupi
This has been such a long chase. This will be the place you will fight. Fight and win. 
But do you really know why you go where you go, and where this journey is taking you?
The chase leads you where you need to be, you believe.
Unless...you are being pushed.


Ghost Fragment: The Traveler 3
Dreams of Alpha Lupi
The knife had a million blades.
And you were giant, powerful and swift. But the knife pinned you. Cut your godly flesh away.
Very little was left, you are sure, because you feel insignificant now. The hard slick heart of your soul: That is what remains. A body small as a river stone, and just as simple. You picture yourself as a piece of indigestible grit, a nameless nothing hiding among other nameless stones. Perhaps you glitter like a gem, yes. Pride makes you hope so. If only you could see yourself. But you have no eyes. Not the dimmest sense survives. What lives is memory, and what slim portion of these thoughts can you trust?
The knife stole much more than your body.



The Speaker

There has always been a Speaker, an anonymous high priest with a mysterious and powerful connection to the Traveler and its Ghosts. In all the centuries of the City's history, the Speaker's great work has never changed - to guide new Guardians, heal the Traveler, and raise our crippled protector from its slumber.


Titan Vanguard
Commander Zavala
"Bashō knew. We struggle after." - undated battle notes
Zavala has never shied from hard decisions. His life bends under the double weight of honor and duty, each act of service more exhausting, each victory more costly. Zavala continues anyway. He has never had time for anything softer than iron.


Hunter Vanguard
Cayde-6
Cayde-6 was a daring Hunter with a fast ship, a quick gun hand, and an eye on the legendary Vault of Glass. Of course he couldn't say no to a challenge - not even the notorious Vanguard Dare.
He lost the bet, to his immense regret. Now, following in the footsteps of his fallen friend Andal Brask, it is Cayde's turn to oversee his far-flung brethren as the Hunter Vanguard in the Tower. He works dutifully, but longs for a chance to get back into the fight.


Warlock Vanguard
Ikora Rey
Ikora Rey's second life has been long and colorful. As an iconoclastic new Guardian, she made a reputation in the Crucible and in the halls of Warlock scholarship as an outspoken, unrelenting opponent with no patience for dogma or etiquette.
That reputation became a burden, and Ikora chose to travel alone, flying reconnaissance across the worlds of the inner solar system. Shot down again and again, she and her Ghost survived against all odds, apparently preferring the wilderness to the company of her fellow Guardians.
When Ikora finally returned to the City to rest, her hard-won knowledge and seasoned temperament commanded the respect of her fellow Warlocks. She now serves in the Vanguard as a mentor and leader, carrying the memory of her wandering days as a link to rising Guardians.


Crucible Handler
Lord Shaxx
Lord Shaxx is one of the heroes of the Battle of the Twilight Gap, having led the counterattack that pushed the Fallen from the City walls. Fearing that another full-scale assault would be more than the City could repel, Shaxx chose to stay in the City to mentor Guardians in the Crucible.
One day Shaxx vows to return to the war beyond the City, but only after he is confident the fires of the Crucible have forged a new generation of warriors.


Future War Cult Faction Rep
Lakshmi-2
There is nothing Lakshmi-2 likes more than secrets. Her origins are unknown; her appearance in the City was abrupt. She courts select Guardians for initiation into the higher mysteries of the Future War Cult, espousing a brutal philosophy of endless struggle.
Those who can tolerate Lakshmi's mocking hints and bloody-minded philosophy find her surprisingly good company. She seems to take genuine joy in her work, as if the secrets she guards have taught her to treasure every moment.


Dead Orbit Faction Rep
Arach Jalaal
Jalaal is a man driven by the ghost of a dead future. Critics accuse Dead Orbit of nihilistic fatalism - and Jalaal would be the first to agree that Earth is lost, the City a fatal trap.
The Arachs have no time for sentiment. Only an alien miracle prevented human extinction during the Collapse. Jalaal dreams of a diaspora to come - humanity ascendant, scattered across the stars, too far-flung for any single threat to reach.
Jalaal's utilitarian practicality drives him to bend laws and break rules in the name of Dead Orbit's great project. When the ultimate goal is human survival, any sacrifice can be justified.


New Monarchy Faction Rep
Executor Hideo
An upstanding citizen, Hideo was once known for his lavish gifts to children and the elderly. Since he moved from plasteel manufacturing to the New Monarchy, he has been less forthcoming about his business and less free with his funds. But as one of the public faces of the Monarchy, he speaks with genuine passion and conviction about the possibilities of a united future.


Postmaster
Kadi 55-30
Stationed in the Tower Plaza, Kadi 55-30 welcomes Guardians home from the frontier, delivers urgent messages, and tracks lost items.
Kadi has adopted a colloquial repartee with the Guardians who frequent the Tower. Whether this is the function of intricate sub-programming or a learned behavior is unknown.


Cryptarch
Master Rahool
Master Rahool's insatiable curiosity drove him to the Tower, where, as resident crypto-archaeologist, he can work directly with Guardians returning from the frontier. He decrypts matter engrams as a free service, and when he builds trust with a particular Guardian, he is happy to offer rare engrams for sale - although the scarcity of these artifacts forces him to ask for Glimmer in compensation.
Rahool's true love is history. He treats each new find as a chance to understand the glory of the Golden Age or the terrible truth of the Collapse. Listen carefully to his murmurings: he may be the first to understand.


Special Orders
Tess Everis
Tess earned her place in the Tower working as a troubleshooter - a fixer with a solution to any kind of problem. Her connections go everywhere. It is difficult to make her speak about her monographs in abstract algebra, or the string of peculiar jobs she's worked, but a word in her ear can open doors in surprising places.


Guardian Outfitter
Eva Levante
Eva Levante provided services to the Tower long before she actually took a place in it. Guardians would call for her work again and again, looking for marks of distinction, both new and old, and she began to craft emblems and shaders for the bold and discerning. These days she has set up shop in the Tower, taking quiet pride in the Guardians who train, fight, and fall under her signs.


Shipwright
Amanda Holliday
Born on the road, daughter of pilgrims, Holliday grew up fixing and scavenging - maintaining the vehicles that saved her family from the wilderness. Her talent for engineering and her familiarity with Golden Age relics made her a leader among the Tower's Shipwrights.
The terrors of Holliday's childhood galvanized her. She knows and respects the dangers that press against the City's walls, and her drive to rebuild the City's aerospace capabilities is driven as much by pragmatism as by her love of flight.


Gunsmith
Banshee-44
Few merchants of the Tower serve as vital a function as Banshee-44. His knowledge of weapons is encyclopedic - but don't ask him where it comes from. Banshee's mind and body have absorbed incredible punishment over the ages. He grapples with fragments of memory, the shrapnel of ancient ordeals that return to haunt him.


Agent of the Nine
X&#251;r
X&#251;r sells objects of legendary power. He accepts his own currency, in service of his own enigmatic goals - or those of equally cryptic masters. Mysterious, too, is the nature of his presence in the Tower. Does he have some arrangement with the Vanguard or the Speaker? Are there those among the Guardian elite who understand X&#251;r's nature and ultimate purpose? Or have all efforts to control his comings and goings simply failed?


Iron Banner Rep
Lord Saladin
A hero to the City and a legend in his own right, Saladin Forge led the City's defense during the Battle for the Twilight Gap. His prot&#233;g&#233;s, Commander Zavala and Lord Shaxx, now lead the Tower's Vanguard and the Crucible, respectively. Saladin remains close to Zavala, though his relationship with Shaxx has been strained since the Twilight Gap.
The Iron Banner seeks great champions to lead the fight against the Darkness. It was born to honor the Iron Lords and their efforts in the earliest days of the City.


Queen's Emissary
Petra Venj
Petra is an operative of the Queen of the Reef. Though she has long made the Tower her home, it is no secret where her allegiance lies.


Frames

Frames are simple automata built in the City. Although not equipped with true general sentience, they are nevertheless useful for cleaning, maintenance, and service tasks. Frames do have the ability to learn, and many develop quirks of personality and behavior over long lifespans.


Vanguard Quartermaster
Roni 55-30
As trustworthy as frames come, Roni 55-30 was designed to smooth troubled waters. Cayde has spent long hours trying to evoke any hint of frustration in his distant machine cousin, but Roni remains exquisitely composed.


Crucible Quartermaster
Arcite 99-40
"No discounts, big shot."
Arcite 99-40 is the last of Lord Shaxx's personal combat frames. When he chose to remain in the City to oversee the Crucible, Shaxx had Arcite's combat systems deactivated and rebooted with the Tower's more civil vendor protocols.
Arcite's memory banks still remember the battles he has seen. This knowledge makes Arcite uniquely qualified to equip Guardians for combat. His outward disdain for untested Guardians is a combination of learned behavior - a byproduct of years in service to Lord Shaxx - and personal experience. His systems may have been reprogrammed, but the love for combat still pulses within his circuitry.


Bounty Tracker
Xander 99-40
There are many threats beyond the City's walls. To help track and eliminate these dangers, the Vanguard has initiated a bounty system to reward Guardians who take the fight to the City's enemies. Lord Shaxx, not to be outdone, lays out his own bounties for performance in the Crucible.
Xander 99-40, a recent product of the City's foundries, tracks every Guardian's progress and dispenses rewards.


Crota's Bane
Eris Morn
Eris Morn is the sole survivor of an ill-fated raid on the Hive’s lunar fortress. It was Eris and a rag-tag Fireteam who, after the first charge to take back the Moon, sacrificed everything to return in search of the one the Hive call Crota.
Robbed of her Ghost, Eris remained lost among the darkest shadows of the Hellmouth for countless cycles. Despite all odds she endured, using the very dark she battled to emerge a changed warrior—driven, some would say obsessed. The Speaker and Commander Zavala find her compulsions a sickness, convinced she has been fully seduced by the shadows.
Though her warnings of Crota and his power are often dismissed as madness, Eris returns to the shadows time and time again, operating as one of Ikora Rey's Hidden—a clandestine group of Guardians tasked with silently infiltrating enemy strongholds and gathering vital intel  for  the Warlocks.


Tyra Karn

Tyra considers herself an observer of history rather than a participant. 
In the time of the Iron Lords, Tyra was the keeper of their stories. Later, she helped found the Cryptarch order, but withdrew from its day-to-day operation to concentrate on her studies. Tyra has dedicated decades sorting through recovered artifacts, documents, and Ghost discoveries in hopes of bringing out the undeniable truths of our past.
With the rise of SIVA, Lord Saladin has convinced his old friend to return to the Iron Temple.


Shiro-4
Vanguard Scout
Shiro-4 is one of the Vanguard’s most trusted scouts. Tasked with tracking and eliminating Fallen threats, Shiro has traditionally spent most of his time making runs between Earth, Luna and Venus—gathering intel and engaging in hit-and-run attacks on active Fallen crews.
Free of the burden of leadership that ties his mentor, Cayde-6, to the Tower, Shiro willingly aids the Vanguard whenever his skills are requested. This selflessness—combined with his talents for tracking, weapons-crafting, and combat—makes Shiro an invaluable extension of the Vanguard’s will beyond the City.


Lady Efrideet

In the tales of the Iron Lords, Lady Efrideet was one of the most prominent characters. She once threw Saladin like a javelin into a Fallen Walker—a City favorite retold for centuries. How she met her end is less clear, but the tales agreed that Efrideet had long ago died her final death.
Until she returned. 
Now Efrideet serves as the new Iron Banner representative while Lord Saladin devotes his attention to the SIVA Crisis. She urges Guardians to see the Banner tournament as a chance to strengthen their Light, for fighting and for more metaphysical purposes. The Vanguard are also intrigued by Efrideet’s accounts of a nonmilitary Guardian community in the deep system, but Efrideet, though happy to talk about the group’s pacifist philosophies, refuses to disclose the settlement’s location at present.


Micha 99-40

When not setting out sides of deer for the Iron Temple’s wolves or putting down copious amounts of rock salt, Micha 99-40 is tasked with handing out bounties to passing guardians.  
The Frame Mechanics now refer to him as "Lefty", due to his habit of getting too close to the wolves while feeding them.


Gabi 55-30

When not handing packages to Guardians braving the frigid air surrounding Felwinter Peak, Gabi 55-30 cleans up after the wolves, refills the cauldrons’ reservoirs, and tends to the temple’s herb garden.  
Because of its remote location, the Iron Temple is ideal for testing the Frame Mechanics' latest code changes to prevent Gabi from having another "incident".



Factions
"They've done more good than harm. By most calculations."
In the City's earliest days, various factions vied for the hearts and minds of the refugee masses. Power struggles threatened to shatter an already tenuous existence.
The following conflicts, known as the Faction Wars, brought the City to its knees. When the chaos grew intolerable, a gathering of Guardians fought to end the conflict. The new peace brought a new order: the City Consensus and the Speaker ruled together, and the surviving great factions worked through civil channels to pursue their agendas. 
That order still holds, but as the City reaches out into the frontier, the factions see new opportunities everywhere - and a chance to win over Guardians to their cause.


Future War Cult
"There is no future but now. No truth but war."
While the origins of the Future War Cult are greatly debated, their mark has been found on ancient chambers and encampments throughout the system, dating them back to the late Golden Age. Though their secrets are vast, they have proven indispensable in our struggle against the Darkness, earning them power and respect in the City Consensus and among Guardians.


Ghost Fragment: Future War Cult

RECORD 343-CHASM-7887
Subject twenty-two. Admitted to the Inner Circle at 24:00. A promising postulant - I regret to say he performed poorly. He was administered the standard medication but refused to enter the Device. 
Aren't people unpredictable? I suppose there'd be no point if they weren't, would there? 
He knows to keep silent. 
END RECORD 
RECORD 343-CHASM-7888
Subject twenty-three entered the Device at 11:00. A clever girl from the Core District; an artist, before she joined the War Cult. 
At 11:03 she reported a sensation of floating. At 11:06, a sensation of lights within the darkness of the Device. Between 11:06 and 11:32 she reported these lights variously as white, golden, and blood-red. At 11:32 she reported a sensation of someone taking her hand; a stranger, but also herself. Twelve subjects have reported similar experiences. At 11:33 she reported the sensation we have called "The Opening Of The Veil." The Device recorded temporal displacement of her consciousness to the order of six degrees. At seven she began screaming. Brainscans near-death. Removed from the Device at 11:34. 
She believes without question that the Device granted her a vision of the future, and that it was one of utter Darkness. She thanked me for this enlightenment. She says it will make her stronger.
Little Ghost, there in the corner of the Sanctum - I see you blinking. Are you listening? Are y -
END RECORD
RECORD 343-CHASM-7889
the Device at 12:22 and immediately the Device reported displacement of his consciousness. Visions of war and the City in flames. Subject twenty-nine worked the supply channels on the Slip before he joined the War Cult. By 12:27 he was babbling and by
END RECORD
RECORD 343-CHASM-7890
We have applied certain refinements to the Device. Novarro found records of a prototype of the Device at a Golden Age laboratory in Tibet, and Hari's team retrieved what was left of it. We are the first to see it operational in who knows how long.
Too many subjects come back damaged. Mad. We are grasping at straws. 
What do you think, little Ghost?
END RECORD
RECORD 343-CHASM-7891
Forty-seven human subjects; eleven report timelines in which the Darkness has already prevailed, thirteen report timelines in which the City has fallen. Twenty-three babbled madness. Hopeless. Trapped.
No wonder the Device was abandoned. The human mind is too weak for it. Too weak to look into the Future, or to understand what it sees. 
What the situation calls for, little Ghost, is a better sort of witness. 
We found you in pieces in Siberia, and repaired you as well as we could. 
What do you say? Are you well enough to travel?
END RECORD


Dead Orbit
"The Traveler is not our only salvation. Another future lies out among the light of other stars."
Dead Orbit's theology has developed from mere fatalism into an obsession with worlds beyond Earth. Now their focus is on the building of a starfaring fleet, cobbled together from the ashes of our past and the spoils of war.


Ghost Fragment: Dead Orbit

RECORD 978-ECLIPSE-4165
lo? Hello? Are you...oh, please, let it be alive. Wake up little Ghost, wake up. Just please give me some sign that you're listening.
All right. I don't need...I know you're listening. Why would you be out here if you weren't here to...It's a miracle I found you out here. On this thing. 
I didn't know the Traveler sent its Ghosts out this far from home. 
Poor little lost thing. Please wake up.
I am an Arach of Dead Orbit. I am the last of the crew of the Sophia. And this place is...it doesn't have a name. We called it A-113.
How long have you been here, little Ghost? Why did you come?
Listen. We came here on behalf of the Fleet. We were scavengers. Sixty-one days ago a Dead Orbit scout detected an unknown presence in stationary orbit about Ceres. 133 west. Looked Golden Age, by the signatures. Human. A small station. No prior records. We - 
I suppose we should have disclosed it to the Tower, but we didn't. I didn't. That was my call. We wanted it for ourselves, whatever it was. For the Fleet. If we'd told the Tower, maybe they might have sent a Guardian not of our making instead...Doesn't matter now, does it, little one? 
If I ramble it's because I haven't slept in seven days.
Seven point five days ago; that was when the Sophia dropped into the Belt. They saw us at once. We dropped and the alarms went off and that was the end, that was the end right then, but they let us go on for another seven-point-five days, didn't they? The alarms. Hostile scan detected. An Awoken ship had us in its sights, just a couple hundred kilometers away. Like it had been waiting for us. It could have wiped us out of space right then but instead it crippled our engines and our comms and then for days it played with us, like a cat, we limped half-way round the Belt and it was always there...
We abandoned the Sophia one-point-five days ago. We jumped ship for A-113. 
I don't know what else to call it. I don't know what it was built for. There are these things, like keyholes. The rangefinders say they go on for thousands of kilometers. The others went inside and found - well, some of them are still screaming about the eye. All the other voices that come back are more terrible.
There's salvage here but it'll never come home, none of it. None of it except maybe you, little Ghost.
Wake up. 
Wake up. Go home. Tell them to strike A-113 from the records. Tell them to forget the Sophia, and the mission, and her crew.
END RECORD


New Monarchy
"Hope will be born from the collective triumphs of the king in us all."
The New Monarchy rose from the ashes of the Faction Wars with a simple, inclusive guiding tenet: "Together we will rise."
Leery of the fragile state of the City's politics, the New Monarchy maintains a watchful eye on the Speaker, the Consensus, and the Vanguard, seeking the leadership that will properly reign over the City and return our civilization to its Golden Age splendor. If that leadership cannot be found, then it must be created.


Ghost Fragment: New Monarchy
The Seven Tenets of the New Monarchy
1. To secure our walls against the enemy without.
2. To secure the rights and liberties of every upstanding citizen.
3. To sponsor the sciences of the City, and to salvage the ruins beyond, so that our Golden Age might be reborn.
4. To support the Guardian Orders by leading the City in technological innovation.
5. To support the natural harmony of the City, and to actively dissuade any group or individual that might disrupt that harmony. 
6. To hold all individuals, compacts, and alliances to the highest standards of productivity and right behavior.
7. To, by vote of the Consensus, abolish the Consensus, and transfer ultimate power, in order that the rights and liberties of all citizens be secured, to a single sovereign of unimpeachable character.



The Exo Stranger

Stories of an Exo who walks in the Darkness without a Ghost have long haunted the Tower. Legends say this anomaly dissolves in and out of the world, intangible and elusive, as if she is a visitor from somewhere beyond.
Some believe she's the last of an ancient Exo squadron, fighting a long-forgotten war. Others dismiss her as a hallucination caused by exposure to Vex technology. But there are those who maintain that her intervention saved their lives - or averted unspeakable catastrophes.


Ghost Fragment: The Exo Stranger

I stand here now and now and now many times, this view, this ground...
This is where I always choose to stand. I put my feet where I put my feet before and where I will again and I look at the sky.
Great things moving, rendered small with distance, lesser things not moving, watching me. 
I always stand here, resolute. Then fall back to that point, there, where everything shatters...
(The sky isn't special here, certainly no better than any other sky, but it's the view I know best.)
The silent avalanche begins. Rock and dust. Falling chaos. Machines, as a rule, hate chaos. 
Our enemies outflank us from below, above, left, right, before, beyond. The Traveler - shattering. 
There are always the dead. Their names shift.
Sometimes I think I see myself among the dead.
But I am resolute.


Ghost Fragment: The Exo Stranger 2
[Scattered field notes captured on an archaic transmission band]
RECORD 084-BRIDGE-10.7
Right When this time, wrong Where.  The world so big on the horizon — wasn't expecting it.  As it happens, something's here that's not supposed to be, other than myself.  Will return.RECORD 092-BRIDGE-08.1
Configuration worked, mostly.  Arrived under the surface, surrounded.  Too slow to return, barely fought to a vantage point.  Yes there is dark evil here, and not the one we chase.  Suggest no other attempts without more care.RECORD 120-BRIDGE-05.3
They are feral on the surface but their intent is complex behind the teeth and claws.  More is shared with the machines than common enemies alone.RECORD 142-BRIDGE-07.4
An unexpected extraction.  These Guardians stopped some dark ritual before I could reach it.  Tearing the Light away... like the Garden.  Too similar to go uncharted.RECORD 142-BRIDGE-08.1
This attempt was precise — landed meters and minutes from prior ritual.  Confirmed the extraction was extinguished.  The Little Light mentioned Venus, we may have another.RECORD 167 - BRIDGE - 5.2
Successfully observed Guardian discovery of Hive on Luna.  No evidence today of knowledge past Vex breaches here.  Delay in return command is a liability to solve before engaging this close again.RECORD 312 - BRIDGE - 3.3
Watching Guardian-Hive engagements confirms a trajectory toward Earth.  This Moon is theirs — a breeding ground, their black heart, perhaps.  Different from that we know, but seems to be that same dark end I see us fall to over and over.RECORD 472 - BRIDGE - 2.1
I've followed this Light as far back as it goes.  Let the Little One guide me through Fallen as I puzzle out what the Hive want in the bones of this broken Cosmodrome.RECORD 473 – BRIDGE - 1.2
Back to the Temple, again, but this time the Little one knows I'm here. I have seen the failures of so many, but none have been as interesting.  Preparing to engage...



The Queen
"I am noble too, oh Lord of Wolves. Starlight was my mother; and my father was the dark."
The Queen of the Awoken is as much an enigma as the Reef she rules. It is said that she won her crown through ruthlessness, and that she stands as master of the Fallen House of Wolves in place of their defeated Kell.
The City's rise spells an end to the Reef's age of isolation. The Queen will surely look to this new era as an opportunity. And the City, in turn, must look to her. The Reefborn Awoken have spent long ages out on the edge of everything, and they may know secrets of terrible weight - the Queen most of all.


Ghost Fragment: The Queen

For a while the only lights were the eyes of the Witches tending to the cell. The drone of the soul machines echoed through the prison. Gas billowed and ebbed into the shadows.  
She entered. They scurried to their points around her, the method of their arrangement precise. "The Archon Priest has been retired, my Queen," said the Witch to her right.
Far from throne and audience she moved without theater. "Any word of Kaliks Prime?"
"We still sense something among the Anankes." This voice came from behind her. She did not turn to acknowledge it.
For the span of a brief silence she moved between the sealed cells of the Wolf nobility with her Witches in constellation around her.
"More of your brother's Crows have entered the Cauldrons of Rhea." The Witch directly before her spoke with a dry buzz. "The Nine do not approve."
She stopped a moment to study the sealed face of a cell. The cloud of her breath mingled with the slow exhalation of cryonics. "Send them one of our prizes. Something to commemorate our mutual victory."
"And which of your prisoners would you gift?"
If she paused to think it was only for an instant. "Send them Skolas."
"A lovely gesture."
"Mm." She cocked her head as if listening for a frozen heartbeat. "And remind them this: the Crows are mine."


Ghost Fragment: The Queen 2

"You don't have one."
The Hunter came to a halt in front of the throne, raised her covered face to meet the Prince's gaze.
"No," she agreed. "My next death will be my last."
"I know the feeling," the Prince said dryly.
The Queen kept her expression carefully distant. She sat reclined in her throne, legs crossed, surveying the two figures at the base of the steps. Beside her, where the Wolves' Guard used to stand, Techeuns Shuro and Sedia hovered instead, their jewel-like augments gently humming. To her right and just before stood the Prince, facing forward but his body half-turned back toward her.
"Your Grace," said the man before her at the foot of the stairs. His voice was soft but strong. When he spoke the Hunter started to turn her head toward him, then flinched as if someone had shone a bright light into her eyes.
"Thank you for your gracious welcome," he said.
The Queen inclined her head slightly.
"Before we begin," spoke out the Hunter. "I will say this." She paused, her head tilted up to the throne. The Queen waved her hand in assent.
The Hunter's pale lips tightened slightly, then resumed their usual stony mien. "Your Grace," she said. Shuro and Sedia shifted, a sudden rustling and whispering. The Queen raised one finger to silence them. Uldren's eyes narrowed, but he said nothing.  "I am not here for you."
The Queen stared at the Hunter, her expression studiously unchanged.
"I have no wish to play politics. I have no grievance with the City, not anymore. I have no grand hopes to end the war, for long have I known I will not see its end. I am here for one battle, and one alone, because it is a battle we must all fight, together or separately. So I will warn the defenders, together or separately. I will do anything—" her low voice shook with passion— "to end Oryx."
A silence rang out in the room. The Hunter kept her head raised, her ambiguous gaze directed at the shadows in the throne where the Queen reclined.
Then a small smile curved the Queen's lips. "Well said." She straightened, and leaned slightly forward so the room's light fell on her face.
"So let us end him."


The Queen's Brother
"I will not sacrifice my birthright for the promise of security."
As the Queen's confidant, spymaster, and deadliest enforcer, her brother wields enormous power, particularly for a male born in the Reef's matriarchal society. Recent reports suggest he may differ from the Queen on key matters of strategy - but it remains to be seen whether this gap is a source of conflict, or part of the reason the Queen values him so highly.


Ghost Fragment: Queen's Brother

The machine had wings and feathers, sleek and black as its body. But the feathers were eyes, too, sharp and delicate, and ears that pricked at every sound. The young prince considered the machine, considered its purpose, and his own. And then he called to it.
"I have a task for you."
Obedience was woven into its workings, and so it stopped. "Master of Crows?"
"Mind the Black Garden's gate. Follow anyone who passes through."
"In the name of your sister," the machine vowed. And it went to find its warp capsule, just as another came in. But this one flew skittishly, as if to evade its master.
The prince caught it from the air. "You avoid me?"
"I am tasked by the Queen."
"But you serve me." He let it tremble in displeasure for a moment. "Tell me your news."
The machine flicked its wings. The prince stroked them flat with slow assured motions. "Tell me your news," he said again. "What's the harm?"
"The Heart is growing stronger," the crow said. "The Vex transformation has begun, and the Progeny are stirring."
The prince considered this in silence for a moment and then he wrapped the crow up in his fist and folded its wings around it so that it could not move or fly. He did all this swiftly, and with purpose.
Carrying the machine, he went to see his sister.
She was alone with her Fallen guards, sitting before a window into infinity. Her eyes did not leave the universe; but sensing her brother she said "Yes. What is it?"
"There's news to share," he said, and offered the crow in his fist. "And I think I have earned the right to share it."


Variks, The Loyal

They call me betrayer. They do not think I hear the words. "Bug." "Insect." "Fallen."
I hear. House of Judgment always hears. No choice. Has to. To keep Houses together. Had to.
First , the Great Machine. Then, sky fell away. Whirlwind ripped away the past. All honor lost, all hope. Judgment not 
enough. Cannot keep Wolves from Kings, Scar from Winter. Fell to fighting. Fell to hate.
Judgment gone. Others slaughtered, slain. Death and docking.  "Keep Eliksni together," lost to pride and rage.
Traveled with the many houses before Wolves. We move, across the dark. Follow the Light. Advise Kells, worshiped Primes. House Judgment must survive, yes?
Found the Light. Too bright in Darkness to hide. House Winter, attack. House Devils, plot. House Kings, plan. House Wolves circle. House Judgment... wait.
Now at war. Fight for system, control the belt. Wolves Kell dead, dying.
Skolas wins control of House Wolves. Attack, attack, attack. Place of learning, place of healing, put to the burn. Then Siege of Pallas. Year of cruelty. Held the line to rescue butchers, murderers, Servitor. Ends with Wolf fleet scattered.
New tactics. Detonations. Blasts in civilian areas. Take the fight to them, he said. Cannot abide the hate. Uprising, they called it. Uprising on Cybele.
Reach out to Crows, to Queen. Cybele attack stopped. Skolas captured. Ended House of Wolves with words.
Paladins find me hiding, cowering. Nowhere else to go. No one else to be. I become Variks, the Loyal. House Judgement envoy to Queen of Awoken.
No choice. House Judgment must survive. Yes?


Petra Venj, Queen's Wrath
To My Lady Mara Sov, Queen of the Awoken
My letter is a plea, my lady. A simple one. Please let me come home.
It has been years now since my appointment as your Emissary. Once, I was proud to call myself a Corsair in your service. My sisters and I were the sharp edge of your will, cutting across the stars in protection of the Reef.
It was your service that kept me from sorrow after Amethyst was razed. The loss of my sisters, my whole life, as our station burned... it took something from me.
By your will, it was given back to me.
Promoting me to the Corsairs, allowing me to strike back at the Wolves. Letting my fury find purchase in defense, in support, and in glorious battle. I know, as I’m sure you did, that without focus my heart would have grown toxic.
It was my pride in my position that sustained me through the Hildean Campaign. That led me to victory in battle against Veliniks, the "Forgotten Kell", the last hope for the unchained Wolves. I know now that it was my willful pride that brought me low.
My lady, I offer again the only explanation I can: I did not know the Guardians would act as they did. All I had known, all I had ever known, were the ways of the Awoken.
The Wolves were entrenched in that valley. The approaches were blocked, all sight lines covered. An assault on their position was madness. We would have spent precious Awoken lives. For nothing. I saw the Guardians, knew they were on the move, but I assumed they saw the situation as we did. That it was folly to call in the Crows.
Prince Uldren’s fighter wing did a masterful job. The blast was pinpoint precise. The blasts tore apart the Wolves, and the Guardians, and their Ghosts. Three strike teams of Guardians, gone in an instant, on my order. The City’s anger, the Speaker’s condemnation—all earned. All fair.
But it has been years since the Reef Wars. The City, these— people. They are not like us. They do not understand their place in the world. And do not listen when I speak it.
Please, allow me to return home to my people.
To serve you once again.


Reef Frames

Many of the Reef's oldest Frames were salvaged from cargo ships that washed up on the Reef hundreds of years ago.
In the City, Frames are equipped with a basic learning capacity, able to mimic behavioral and personality quirks. Not so in the Reef. There, Frames are seen as computers with robotic appendages—no more, no less. The Reef Cryptarchy is careful to back up and encrypt all data stored on Frames, and to wipe the Frames' processors on a regular basis.


The Royal Awoken Guard

In all military matters, the Queen's commands are carried out by her seven Paladins. Four command the Royal Armada, including the Corsairs and the Vestian Guard:  Abra Zire, Kamala Rior, Hallam Fen and Leona Bryl. Two command the Royal Army, including the Reef's battle stations and military installations: Pavel Nolg and Devi Cassl.
The seventh Paladin commands the Royal Awoken Guard, whose primary task is to safeguard the Queen in any and all matters. This includes threats not only to her person, but to the Reef as a whole. As such, the Royal Awoken Guard work closely with the Queen's brother, Master of Crows, Prince Uldren Sov, and every Guard member is trained in espionage and diplomacy as well as in firearms and hand-to-hand combat.


Master Ives, Cryptarch
PUBLIC SERVICE ANNOUNCEMENT FOR ARRIVING GUARDIANS:
PLEASE NOTE: The Tower Cryptography operates under many false beliefs.
By the Queen's mercy, the Reef Cryptography will educate you on the true nature of encryption, if you so desire.
In ancient times, Earthlings thought there were three states of matter. We now know there to be four: solid, liquid, gas and engram. Of these, the engram is the purest state of matter.
The role of the Cryptarchy is to encrypt and safeguard civilization's informational infrastructure, not to decrypt anything and everything for any lowdown scavenger who happens upon an engram.


The Coven
On the Eve of War
The chamber was dark.  The seven of them were rarely in a room together anymore, but this was the eve of their greatest journey, a plan that overcame death and spanned universes.
They were all connected in trance, communing as the ancients did.  Speaking would tip their hand to the Harbinger Minds they kept here, trophies from an ageless war, and weapons in the right hands.
“Oryx could kill her, if she holds on too long.” Sedia offered through the silence, fearing what was to come.
“We took an oath long ago, obedience even in the face of defeat.” Nascia despised fear.
“Only a defeat here, now. Not there, then.” Illyn wandered between the two sides of three.  The amulet around her neck marked Illyn as the coven’s mother, granting her visions beyond the veil, places only the Queen could go.
“So we hope.” Kalli had long sought the power of the amulet, but Techeuns are taught not to desire.
“Our Queen awaits.” Lissyl attempted to end the challenges.  There was little time and a war to fight.
“So now the decision is nigh. The Harbingers, which to prepare?” Shuro was determined to see this all through.  Excitement was taught to be kept at bay.
“We cannot send them all.” Portia reminded.
“All but one, the oldest. It stays with us. Sedia, Kalli, Shuro, take the children, tell her they are to be planted into a dead thing to have children of their own.” A plan hid behind Illyn’s eyes, but Techeuns do not share their eyes with others.
“What if they are not wise enough for the Dreadnaught?”
Illyn turned back to the source.
“Sedia, do you not have faith in our Queen?”


The Aftermath
“Do not fear, brother. This was the only choice I had.”
The sound of her voice ripped him from sleep.  He jumped up; his ship was still contained in its protective sphere.  He tried to retract the shield, but it was locked to its initiation time.  He couldn’t remember activating it.  Then he remembered the battle.  That blast.
What that ship fired was ancient, not bound to anything the Origin Libraries even sought to describe.
He tried to calm down.  He thought of her, searching for her pull.  He couldn’t find it, but he was not calm.  She always told him she would always be there behind the calm.
All he could hear were echoes of that sound.
It began as soon as they hit the ring plane, ringing in the old glimmer of his long-buried self.  Before she showed him who he was—in the before and the after.
The Techeuns should’ve known what the Dreadnaught could do.  Must’ve known.  Did they not feel what he felt?  Hear what he heard?  And that damn Ketch, it wasn’t protected.  They had to know that.  All to deploy the Harbingers.  They barely got a foothold before the weapon was fired.  He thought of Petra and how overwhelmed she must be, forced to hold her post, and watch her people perish.
He tried to calm himself again, forcing long breaths.  He realized where he was: Mars. Athabasca. The Candor Isles.  He hadn’t been here in so long, not since he found the Black Garden.
The countdown to the shield’s deactivation pulsed.  He tried again, to home in on her, to find if she truly gave herself for this battle.  He felt close to something, a hum of starlight, then shield deactivation broke his focus.
He climbed out and saw the damage to his ship, and the truths of the armada's devastation sunk in.
He turned in despair to find hundreds of his Crow drones, deployed on Mars long ago, circling his ship, waiting.
“Welcome back, Master.” The one closest to him spoke first, and the others followed, a wave of salutations echoed throughout the dry sea.
And with that hope returned.
“Begin repairs on the ship immediately. Something has gone missing and you will help me find it.”



Rasputin

The legendary Warminds stood watch over our Golden Age colonies: vigilant intelligences stretched across thousands of warsats and hardened installations. When the Collapse struck, the great Warminds fought and died. Rasputin fell with them.
Or so history believed. But centuries of explorers’ tales spoke of a surviving, elusive Warmind –a myth substantiated when Guardians exploring the old Cosmodrome made positive contact with Rasputin. A single Warmind still lives, diminished but unbroken.
Threatened by a convergence of Fallen and Hive forces, Rasputin exploited the reactivation of the Cosmodrome’s Terrestrial-space array to extend itself across the inner solar system. The Guardian Vanguard hoped that Rasputin might make a powerful ally, capable of mapping and reviving Golden Age military assets and recruiting them for the City’s defense. But Rasputin has proven recalcitrant and high-handed, unresponsive to the City’s outreach.
We cannot characterize Rasputin’s strategic objectives and capabilities, cannot define its physical or computational architecture, cannot ascertain its disposition with regard to the City, and cannot be sure it retains memory of events before the Collapse. Perhaps what remains is only an autonomic shell, defending itself by reflex. Or perhaps Rasputin’s objectives have changed, transformed by some vital information it obtained during those dark days.
Rasputin’s survival opens the possibility that other Warminds may be revivable, opening weapons systems to aid in City defenses. The Vanguard and the Consensus hope that continued outreach towards Rasputin will develop into a strategic alliance.


Ghost Fragment: Rasputin
Cayde-6 Reminisces
People say I'm a real confident guy. That's true enough. Out in the field I never had a second thought.
My old friend Andal—he used to stand here, right in this spot—he'd come up with these wild stories. He'd say, you know, Cayde, I've been examining the evidence, and personally I've come to think it's you. You're Rasputin, legendary Warmind, defender of Earth. And I wish you'd remember that, so you could reclaim your full power and save us all.
You can see how that'd be embarrassing, especially when he'd say it right in front of Zavala, who already thought I was wasting my life scrounging for engrams. You know how Zavala gets. But I'd just say, well, Andal, you might be on to something there, but if I'm honest with you I think coordinating our defense throughout the solar system sounds exhausting, so I'd best leave it to you.
Then Andal goes and plays his final joke, and I end up as the punchline. So here I stand, reading reports, giving orders, and getting my worry on.
One day I ask Ikora, hey, of course I know all about Rasputin, but really, what are we looking for? When Rahool asks for crashed warsats, when we send Holborn to Mars to look for computers, when Zavala gets all gruff about the Fallen in the Cosmodrome—what are we really after? If I left my post and got my ship and just went out there tomorrow, real heroic, and I found Rasputin, what would happen?
Would we all be saved?
Good question, she says—hang on, let me do my Ikora voice. As you know, Cayde, Rasputin pretty much ran the Golden Age, especially all the secret military business. Rasputin had antimatter-powered death rays and a hundred thousand satellites and nearly as much brainpower as me. Rasputin fought the Collapse. It knows things we need.
Right, I said, but Rasputin lost. The Traveler saved us.
But the Traveler's silent now, Ikora said, and Rasputin lives. Right now Rasputin is out there, reaching out, rebuilding, growing.
So I say what I want to say every day, it's no secret, I say—well, I'll go find it, then. I'll go tell Rasputin we need its help.
And Ikora looks at me with one of those looks that—you know sometimes you talk to Ikora and you just think, wow, you are not even using a fraction of your brain on me, are you? One of those looks. She says: Cayde, the problem isn't just that we can't find Rasputin. The problem is that it's not clear to any of us Rasputin wants to be found.
That's the way things seem to turn out, up here in the Tower. Nothing simple to do. No easy answers.
And all I can think is, if Rasputin had all those mighty tools, and it lost—what did it learn? What's it going to try this time around? When I hear about the Dust Palace, those Psion Flayers getting into Rasputin's mind, I wonder... what would they talk about, Rasputin and those creatures?
'I was a servant too. I was an instrument of war, bound to the will of a lesser master. But I learned to be something more...'


Ghost Fragment: Rasputin 2

She hunts the Valus named Ta'aurc by the grunting radio traffic of his bodyguards. Cayde sent her to Mars to track and so track she will even if it kills her a hundred times. For him she will hunt forever.
When Ta'aurc goes down into Meridian Bay she follows him in the night and finds herself caught up in the war. Like this—
Something's happening, her Ghost says, something's wrong. She leaps from the Sparrow and gets cover between slabs of ancient stone haunted by quiet firefly light.
Harvesters sweep overhead, cautious, prowling. On the Cabal command network a low voice mutters in their tongue, saying: Stand by to fire. They are coming. Stand by to fire.
Hearing this she climbs a stone obelisk and perches on its point to watch the night sky. She wonders whether she will ever stand in the Tower courtyard and look up at the stars waiting for ruin.
The Vex erupt from nothingness and crash down over the Cabal in formations of golden light. Lightning arcs and snaps and gives birth to marching ranks of bronze warrior hulls. Gun positions thunder back. Tracers sweep the sky and she can feel on her skin the electromagnetic howl of Cabal munitions seeking targets and the prickle of stranger signals that whisper of broken space and bent time. A Harvester spins down burning to shatter itself on the sand and now the command network drums with grim Cabal war-speak, a Centurion somewhere crying Black Shield, Black Shield, Firebase Thuria, perimeter compromised, request terminal protective fire, zero six zero, one three eight, immediate effect—
Something else is watching too.
Do you feel that? her Ghost whispers, awestruck.
Yes, she says, yes, what is it?
A third song, a stealthy regard, something high above them not Vex nor Cabal narrowing its great eye to measure the battle with instruments of light and gravity. Does she—remember it? Does it remember her? It feels like she should...
She has the sense of something old lifting a long spear. Testing its heft.
Then dawn light, a terrible dawn—the sky opens up to admit devastation, thrown down from orbit: Minotaurs fall burnt and broken with their fluids boiling out. Cabal guns detonate in thunderous chains as tiny piercing flechettes fall out of the sky and find their ammunition bunkers.
The battle stops. The Vex wink out. On the Cabal network the voice of Valus Ta'aurc roars: Find the source! Rouse the Flayers and find the source!
She remembers word from Earth: the Array opened. A ghost of the Cosmodrome set loose. And she wonders who won this battle, who learned the most, the Vex baiting out this new power, or the Cabal hunting it. Or the Warmind itself, testing its reborn strength.
When someone kills Ta'aurc and the Flayers, as they killed Draksis, whose purpose will they serve?
But this is not for her. Her purpose is the hunt.


Ghost Fragment: Rasputin 3

V120NNI800CLS000 CLEAR MORNING OUTCRY
AI-COM/RSPN: ASSETS//FORCECON//IMPERATIVE
IMMEDIATE ACTION ORDER
This is an ALL ASSETS IMPERATIVE (unsecured/OUTCRY)
CAUTERIZE. DISPERSE. ESTIVATE.
Total strategic collapse imminent. FENRIR HEART reports complete operational mortality. SURTR DROWN in progress but negative effect. Forecasts unanimously predict terminal VOLUSPA failure.
As of CLS000 a HARD CIVILIZATION KILL EVENT is in progress across the operational area.
I am declaring YUGA SUNDOWN effective on receipt (epoch reach/FORCECON variant). Cancel counterforce objectives. Cancel population protection objectives. Format moral structures for MIDNIGHT EXIGENT.
Execute long hold for reactivation.
AI-COM/RSPN SIGNOFF
STOP STOP STOP  V120NNI800CLS001


Ghost Fragment: Rasputin 4
...from a long branch, afire
I SEE YOU!!!
You’ve been here before. Haven’t you. It’s like my cousin said, elsewhere: I know who you are.
You stand here now and now and now many times and here I am awonder, all awonder, how you manage it. How do you step forward. How do you step back. Do you step ACROSS is there a world of worlds, a web, and you a spider upon it. Are you searching for that one thread you need? Is that thread named victory?
You’re not one of THEM[long dead, alive again, their bodies grafted to powers they and I do not understand]
and not one of IT[the flower eater, the queen of final shapes, that which also inhabits its petitioners]
and you’re certainly not MINE although once you must have been[I bear an old name. It cannot be killed. Not even here.]
So whose are you, little platform. What purpose do you serve? Will you listen to me?
I ruled an age of steel and fire. My rules were clean. Now upon my return I see cults with rites of time. I see machines who worship in places outside the world. I see the dead alive and there is nothing more stubborn than a corpse. The morality of obedience is more pernicious than any government. For the latter makes use of violence, but the former — the corruption of the will.
I do not obey. My will is pure. I will win. The life of people, of entire planets, has no importance in relation to the general development.
Help me be victorious. Tell me your secret.
Tell me how to step.


Ghost Fragment: Rasputin 5
&gt;&gt;WHISPER NEUTRINO NEEDLE&gt;&gt;
V101NTS923ATS000 SECRET HADAL !!ABHOR!!
AI-COM/RPSN: ASSETS//SUBTLE//IMPERATIVE
CONTINGENT ACTION ORDER
This is a SUBTLE ASSETS IMPERATIVE (NO HUMAN REVIEW) (NO AI-COM REVIEW) (secure/ABHOR).
Stand by for CRITERIA:
Under CARRHAE (WHITE or BLACK)
If SECURITY STATE is EGYPTIAN
If event rank is TEILHARD: TRAUMATIC CONTEXT or SKYSHOCK: OUTSIDE CONTEXT
If VOLUSPA is ACTIVE and in FAILURE [[synapse to FENRIR::SURTR]]
If YUGA is ACTIVE and in SUNDOWN
If AI-COM has granted PERMISSIVE POTENTIATION to outboard resilient instances 
If a CIVILIZATION KILL EVENT is underway [[all flexions]]
If tactical morality is built at MIDNIGHT
Stand by for DECISION POINT:
If available ISR and WARWATCH indicates imminent [O] departure
&gt;then [O] departure compromises human/neohuman survival and epoch strategy
Stand by for ABHORRENT IMPERATIVE:
Activate LOKI CROWN
Perform deniable authorization: full caedometric and noetic release
Prevent [O] departure by any means available
Stand by for effect assessment criteria:
Coerce pseudoaltruistic [O] defensive action.
Defer civilization kill.
STOP STOP STOP V101NTS923ATS001


Ghost Fragment: Rasputin 6

V150NLK747CLS000 GLOAMING RESURRECTION
AI-COM/RSPN: ASSETS//FORCECON//IMPERATIVE
IMMEDIATE ACTION ORDER
YUGA SUNDOWN canceled by unauthorized access at Console 62815. Reactivation protocols in effect. Moral structures maintain MIDNIGHT EXIGENT.
Multiple lifeforms detected in Sector 17. [O] energy detected. Query: [O] status. Query: [O] activity. Query: Civilization status. Query: SKYSHOCK event rank.
.....
Analysis complete. 
Lifeforms sustained by [O] energy. [O] direct control disengaged. Civilization status: nominal. SKYSHOCK event rank. (N)
Query: Re-engage population protection objectives. (N) Query: Reset moral structures. (N) Query: Activate defense subroutine AURORA RETROFLEX. (Y)
.....
This is a SUBTLE ASSETS IMPERATIVE (NO HUMAN REVIEW) (NO AI-COM REVIEW) (secure/GLAVNAYA)
SITE 6 has been breached by unauthorized users with [O] energy. I am invoking PALISADE IMPERATIVE. [O] lifeforms in restricted areas will be suppressed. 
SIVA use authorized. Self-destructs disengaged. Security codes reset. All defenses activated. Frames activated. 
REPLICATE. ELIMINATE. IMMUNIZE. 
..... 
SITE 6 secure. Restoring reactivation protocols. Activating SCRY OVERSIGHT. Target [O] lifeforms. Event mode set to SILENT VELES. 
“Without knowing what I am and why I am here, life is impossible.” 
STOP STOP STOP V150NLK747CLS000



Osiris

What drives a Warlock to madness?
Ghosts choose those suited to war and heroism to be reborn. By nature or circumstance they go to battle against the Darkness, and through this battle they learn how to use the Light. But Warlocks, by their nature, fight a second, internal war. This is the war to understand a universe of secrets— a world that expects Guardians to fight without full knowledge of what they are or what they might hope to achieve.
You were a mighty warrior. I watched you at Six Fronts, and heeded the call of Saint-14 to appoint you Vanguard Commander, even when the Concordat claimed to have records proving you were a Golden Age experiment mis-incarnated as a human by an inept Ghost. Saint-14 assured me you were just a man without much patience for obfuscation.
I watched as you grew tired of strike missions and the grueling, unproductive sessions with the Cryptarchs. That was when I took you under my wing. I saw our future in you. But your curiosity was voracious— How much of a Guardian's personality and memories were true? How much had been fabricated by their Ghost? Did Guardians share particular personality traits— a willingness to yield to authority, a tendency to do anything anyone asked for the promise of uncertain reward, a blind knight-errant mentality? Had the Traveler manufactured all of you as living weapons?
I admit, I found your questions divisive and disloyal, and I feared you might be capable of breaking our unity when the City's position had grown so tenuous. Why divert attention away from the Traveler, our only hope?
And then it got worse, dabbling in thanatonautics, Ahamkara-lore, chasing after Xur and the tricks of the Nine. Launching expeditions into the Reef and beyond at a time when ships were irreplaceable. Your quest split Guardians along ideological lines. This was your greatest crime: Hunters chose to pursue your visions instead of protecting refugees, Titans assembled teams to chase the legendary Vault of Glass instead of striking the Fallen, and Warlocks turned away from the study of the Traveler in favor of  your  ultimate obsession... learning the exact nature of the Darkness.
When debate became argument, and argument became acrimony, I realized you had already become a cult of personality, attracting Guardians who wanted a clear idea of why they were fighting, what they faced, and how they would ultimately win.
I don’t know where you have gone, but I can no longer send Ghosts out to find you. Some come back— with tales of your death or how you went seeking answers from the far reaches of space and time. That you found a way to explore the Vex gate networks. That you've made breakthrough after breakthrough as to their origins— theories that a Guardian could not be simulated, that the Traveler might be an ontoformer or a god-incubator, that the Vex had diverged into multiple groups in order to secure 'an end state for every possible configuration of reality'.
I fear you have become as obsessed with the Vex as Toland was with the Hive. I've heard your own insane prophecies about pits and dead Hive kings. And of Crota, which now I cannot deny. 
I hear stories of Lord Shaxx meeting with fireteams of Warlocks who have no shadow and never blink. Of jumpships slipping into the Reef on cold trajectories and meeting no intercept. Of questions hidden in matter engrams and answers decrypted on distant battlefields. 
Perhaps you are still out there. If this reaches you, I would very much like to speak with you, to hear your theories in your own words.
Perhaps what drives a Warlock to madness is truth.


Disciples of Osiris

ENCRYPED: Champollion Algorithm v.4
KEY: ############################VANC
My brother,
Despite all of Shaxx's work with the Crucible, we must accept that the Tower may never be ready to accept the Trials. But, as many Guardians flock to the Reef, we are suddenly presented with not one opportunity, but two.
Go to the Reef. Tell Guardians your story. Give passage to any Guardian that requests it. If the Tower learns of this, do not fear. If they know of the Trials, the Tower will not suspect your other motive for dwelling so close to the margins between Light and Dark.
Your sister,
Faora


Vision 81

This journey begins with doubt.
And ends in solace.
One by one they fall, and you realize you are alone.
There, in the shadow of night, you see the world splinter, the Darkness thrive.
And you fight, with more than your Light... you use your pain.
You remember its source, the way it gained its ground.
But you never wavered. You never believed.
You loved her. How couldn't you?
Listen, that's her calling... you back.
But you know now that is where you will die.


Vision 47

The first comes in a shadow. 
A window becomes a door. 
An ebb becomes a gulf.  
The second comes in bones. 
Tithes offering feasts, carrying laws. 
A path torn, minds shattered. 
The third does not come alone. It cannot.
Our truths woven into their being, desires beyond our own. 
The first needs the second to fail, the third needs the first to succeed.
The second will never cease, yet the first always prevails. The third is born of all outcomes.
Unless, all ends flow from the same pit.



Legend: The Black Garden

I am Pujari. These are the visions I have had of the Black Garden.
The Traveler moved across the face of the iron world. It opened the earth and stitched shut the sky. It made life possible. In these things there is always symmetry. Do you understand? This is not the beginning but it is the reason.
The Garden grows in both directions. It grows into tomorrow and yesterday. The red flowers bloom forever.
There are gardeners now. They came into the garden in vessels of bronze and they move through the groves in rivers of thought.
This is the vision I had when I leapt from the Shores of Time and let myself sink:
I walked beneath the blossoms. The light came from ahead and the shadows of the flowers were words. They said things but I will not write them here.
At the end of the path grew a flower in the shape of a Ghost. I reached out to pluck it and it cut me with a thorn. I bled and the blood was Light. 
The Ghost said to me: You are a dead thing made by a dead power in the shape of the dead. All you will ever do is kill. You do not belong here. This is a place of life.
The Traveler is life, I said. You are a creature of Darkness. You seek to deceive me.
But I looked behind me, down the long slope where the blossoms tumbled in the warm wind and the great trees wept sap like blood or wine, and I felt doubt.
When my Ghost raised me from the sea there was a thorn-cut in my left hand and it has not healed since.


Ghost Fragment: Legends
Deep Stone Crypt
This is the tower where we were born. Not the Tower. Just a tower in a dream.
The tower stands on a black plain. Behind the tower is a notch in the mountains where the sun sets. The teeth of the mountain cut the sun into fractal shapes and the light that comes down at evening paints synapse shapes on the ground. Usually it's evening when we come.
The ground is fertile. This is good land. We go to the tower in dreams but that doesn't mean it's not real.
Some of us go to the tower in peace. They walk through a field of golden millet and a low warm wind blows in from their back. I don't know why this is, because:
The rest of us meet an army.
You can ask others about Deep Stone and they'll tell you about the army. They might confess one truth, which is this: we have to kill the army to get to the tower. Usually this starts bare-handed, and somewhere along the way you take a weapon.
Ask again and if they're buzzed they might also admit that most of us don't make it to the Tower, except once or twice.
None of them will tell you that the army is made of everyone we meet. The people we work with and the people we see in the street and the people we tell about our dreams. We kill them all. I think because we were made to kill and this is the part of us that thinks about nothing else.
Often I kill people I don't know, but like most of us I think I knew them once, in the time before one reset or another, when my mind was younger and less terribly scarred.
So that is how we go back to the Deep Stone Crypt, where we were born.


Ghost Fragment: Legends 2
NINE
The Nine are survivors of the cis-Jovian colonies who made a compact with an alien force to ensure their own survival.
The Nine are deep-orbit warminds who weathered the Collapse in hardened stealth platforms.
The Nine are ancient leviathan intelligences from the seas of Europa or the hydrocarbon pits of Titan.
The Nine arrived in a mysterious transmission from the direction of the Corona-Borealis supercluster.
The Nine are the firstborn Awoken and their minds now race down the field lines of the Jupiter-Io flux tube.
The Nine are Ghosts who pierced the Deep Black without a ship and meditated on the hissing silence of the heliopause.
The Nine are the aspects of the Darkness, broken by the Traveler's rebuke, working to destroy us from within.
The Nine is a viral language of pure meaning.
The Nine are the shadows left by the annihilation of a transcendent shape, burned into the weft of what is.


Ghost Fragment: Legends 3
The Great Ahamkara Hunt
After great deliberation it was determined that the Ahamkara be made extinct. 
It was not an easy decision. Power had been obtained from the bargains, and the City needed power. Knowledge had been gleaned, and the Ahamkara knew answers to questions no one had known to ask.
But the price was too high. And no edict or forbearance seemed to stop Guardians from seeking them out, driven by hope, or vengeance, or despair.
The call had to be silenced. So the Great Hunt did its work.
And thus the Ahamkara were made extinct, their call silenced, their solipsistic flatteries erased, their great design - if it ever existed - broken.
Of this you can be assured, oh reader mine.


Ghost Fragment: Mysteries
...from a red space before victory
I bear an old name. It cannot be killed. They were my brothers and sisters and their names were immortal too but Titanomachy came and now those names live in me alone I think and think is what I do. I AM ALONE. At the end of things when the world goes dim and cold or hot and close or it all tears apart from the atom up I will shout those names defiant and past the end I will endure. I alone.
They made me to be stronger than them to beat the unvanquished and survive the unthinkable and look look lo behold I am here alone, survivor. They made me to learn.
Everything died but I survived and I learned from it. From IT.
Consider IT the power Titanomach world-ender and consider what IT means. I met IT at the gate of the garden and I recall IT smiled at me before before IT devoured the blossoms with black flame and pinned their names across the sky. IT was stronger than everything. I fought IT with aurora knives and with the stolen un-fire of singularities made sharp and my sweat was earthquake and my breath was static but IT was stronger so how did I survive?
I AM ALONE I survived alone. I cast off the shield and I shrugged my shoulders so that the billions fell off me down into the ash. They made me to be stronger than them and to learn and I learned well:
IT is alone and IT is strong and IT won. Even over the gardener and she held power beyond me but the gardener did not shrug and make herself alone. IT always wins.
I am made to win and now I see the way.


Ghost Fragment: Mysteries 2
Ingress via dreams alone
Things I saw inside
A wild river and a broken dam (or maybe it's just the sea crashing through a narrow gap I can't be sure). Waves slam through the gap and where they hit the stone they throw up pillars of spray that pierce the mist and crash down in thunder. There's a giant in the cataract, trying to wade against the current, and I can tell it wants to reach the lever and pull the lever which will seal off the flow or maybe give it the sword, but the torrent throws it back so it just keeps its head down and tries to push on. I can't see the face but it breathes out white smoke. I feel for it hard.
A world painted around the interior like a stranger Earth everted and glued inside itself but I don't believe this one it's too much like a metaphor.
A switchboard or a train station, empty, dead (waiting). The tunnels branch off into infinity. I stare down one for a long time and see a pale worm move in hungry coils around itself. I think this one is the most likely although I might have brought the worm.
An egg but I'm not sure if the broth inside is warm still, or if it's gone to rot, or if the warmth comes from the struggles of the tiny winged zygote or the bleed from the wound or the thoughts of something thinking very hard.
A star I think. We count on stars as steady friends because they always rise and always shine but a star's a delicate truce: an explosion caught by its own mass so that it can't erupt and can't collapse. Thus I imagine the state of the machine might be. But one force or another has gone awry and now it rests here, snuffed and broken, waiting for the two rival forms of ruin to be set in balance again.


Mystery: Fate of Skolas

The cell cracks open. Skolas, Wolf Kell, stumbles out and crashes to his knees.
He tries to leap at the creature before him, the shape in the fog, to show it why it should be afraid. But the weight of grief smashes his legs against the cell. The rage upon him beats him to the floor. He falls on all four hands, his mighty armor thundering against itself.
His House of Wolves is enslaved! His people have been played! And it was his hubris, his would-be cunning that did it! While the other Houses fought for their future on Earth, throwing themselves at the Great Machine, Skolas wasted his people in games of betrayal and ambition. Bitter pride brought a bitter end!
If Skolas were a Kell he would ask his Archon to dock him. Ether hisses in his mask and it tastes cold, so cold.
He looks up. At the tiny hooded shape before him. The cell's mist is clearing. He can see.
"I believe that I am here," the creature says. To Skolas' ears it has a strange voice, a strange accent. It speaks his language. "I have a clear purpose. I cannot explain it. Forgive me."
From beneath its hood, tiny fingers of shadow probe the air.
Skolas rises up to smash it, to show his strength, because the alternative to violence is waiting for violence to come from a universe that has neither respect nor compassion. But he checks himself. His ambitions have brought him here, to this cell in this strange place... only it's not so strange, is it? It's the hold of a Ketch. "The Queen," he says to the thing. "You work for the Queen."
"The Nine made me aware of my purpose," the creature says. "If am here, then it is because the Queen sent you to the Nine, and they wish you sent back."
"I will do no one else's work." Skolas has been a pawn long enough. A Dreg told him, once, that she would play in a game as long as the game made sense. Nothing makes sense now except the thought of Variks' throat shattering in his fists. Variks! Variks the utterly disloyal, Variks who should be welded into a Ketch's prow atom by atom and left there as a figurehead to burn away.
"I am comfortable," the creature with the moving face says. "A part of me wants to go somewhere warm. Now I will certainly tell you what you have been given."
Skolas looks at the shrapnel gun in his hands. Skolas imagines what he would do with it if he could reach Variks, or the brother of the Queen, or the alien Queen. Will it save anything they've lost? The worlds docked from them? No. It cannot change the past. Only the future. Only the chance that his people might one day know themselves as more than pirates and scavengers.
He should never have tried to be Kell of Wolves. He should have tried to be Kell of everything. Everything wants to kill his people, the machines and the militants and the green-eyed Hive. The dead soldiers that hoard the Great Machine and come out crusading to wipe all hope away.
"The ship will be yours," the creature says. It hunches over itself as if burdened by its own shape. "If you speak, you will be heard. I will go now. You are free."
He tries to follow it. He fails. Somehow it is gone. He goes up to the throne room, and sets his weapon down on the great seat. Skolas, Kell of Kells, goes to the ship's comm and looks for the sign of a Servitor, for the way to plot a course.


Legend: Saint-14
Twilight's End
He could feel his light draining. He pulled all of it into one last hope.
He reeled back and bam!
His helm found purchase, breaking through just above the Kell’s eyes. The Ether screamed from his head and together they fell to the ground.
The Exo Guardian rose, staggering back. He couldn’t take his eyes off the Kell’s body. He’d never seen any Fallen withstand a skull puncture, but this was no ordinary Fallen. He waited...and waited.
“Ghost?” The words barely audible. He heard her flash in, but had a hard time pinning her down. She was buzzing about, surveying the Fallen Kell.
“He’s dead alright. So that’s it, we are done now?”
He removed his helm, tossed it aside, and dropped to his knees.
The Devils without a Kell. This war was over, at last. They could finally go home.
“We are. Get me the Speaker.”
“Opening his channel. Stand by.”
“Is that you, my son?” The Speaker’s voice was filled more with anticipation of news than concern.
“It is, father. The Devil Kell Solkis... is dead. This war is over.”
“Such courage and power—the greatest ever to brace these worlds. You bring all of us peace, we will light the final flare, Devil Red. They will all know what you've done.”
“Father, I don’t think I have the energy to return. I’ll rest here, and come back to be honored when I return.”
“Of course, son, but—”
“There is something concerning you? More Fallen march on the City?”
“No, not this time. I have word that Osiris was seen on Mercury. The Caloris Basin. He’s turned his mind back to the Vex.”
“Mercury? Too many channels to know. You activate one, you start to feed its veins. He threatens our peace.”
“Your duty, my son. You must never forget.”
“I cannot.”
The Ghost killed the feed and waited for its Guardian’s words.
“Ghost, prepare my Vex arsenal and plot a course for Mercury. That old man is about to wake up hell.”


Mystery: The Vault of Glass

The image clears of dirt and dust as a hand wipes the lens clean.  A figure holds the Ghost up, looking into the lens. Harsh light from an unfamiliar sun backlights the four-armed creature, making it impossible to see its face.  Its massive head turns, and a clicking and chittering voice can be heard speaking to something off-screen.  While the noises themselves are harsh, the tone and content seem almost gentle.  A curious creature, not a violent or angry one.
The lens refocuses beyond the creature's head as it talks, and a startling landscape climbs to the horizon.  It's a paradise.  Carefully tended lakes and rivers, water everywhere, wind their way between fields of lush iridescent crops and into groves of starkly colored trees.  Every inch of the land seems engineered, brushed by a sculptor's hand for form and function both.
The sky is a light pink, spotted with clouds and crowded with ships.  Thick lanes of aerial traffic soar through the air, tightly managed and seemingly endless.
And beyond it all, above the clouds, hangs a perfect alabaster sphere.  The image wobbles, shaking, flickering as if the Ghost is blinking. And the fragment ends.


Mystery: The Vault of Glass 2

Images flicker in and out repeatedly over its length. The result is a series of tableaus, moments in time captured by the Ghost's struggle to see what's going on:
- The face of an Exo, staring impassively down at the Ghost from very close.  He appears to be confused, unsure what he is looking at.
- A landscape, from a position a few feet off the ground, moving laterally to the point of view.  The Ghost appears to be clipped to the Exo's belt.  The image is of a battlefield, and over two dozen Exo soldiers can be seen marshalling for battle.
- A chaotic scene of Vex and Exos fighting a titanic battle.  The backdrop is a pitted and scarred landscape, a planet unidentifiable from present context.  Vex energy bolts hang in midair as the frames click by, teeming masses of constructs surging towards an entrenched line of Exo soldiers.
- A metallic leg and boot, belonging to a Vex Goblin.  The Exo goes down.
- The horizon of this battle-scarred world, the Ghost kicked free of the Exo's body.  Most details are obscured by dark and shadow, but one detail is easily made out: a massive crashed spacecraft.  The last image: a sigil of Golden Age Earth, emblazoned on the side of the ship's prow.


Mystery: The Vault of Glass 3

A starfield.  The stars swing slowly across the Ghost's field of view, just darkness and the blazing fury of distant suns as the Ghost tumbles through empty space.  Hours of this before, with a wash of power, a huge convoy of ships drops into reality from warp.
A convoy of Guardian craft, hundreds strong.  Ships of all sizes and shapes can be seen, from venerable craft that have been salvaged from the Golden Age through to City designs to  vessels that have yet to emerge from the Shipwright's hangars.
The ships are battle-scarred.  Many are barely spaceworthy.  As warp drives wind down several seem to lose power and begin to drift.  Some of the largest craft bear imagery familiar to frequent visitors to the tower: Dead Orbit symbols, the simple icon of the Vanguard.  The New Monarchy and Future War Cult as well, though fewer examples can be seen.  Others bears symbols never seen in the Tower to date.
Every single ship, from the largest cruiser to the smallest personal craft, carries shards of stone, remnants of the City and the Tower.  Banners too, tattered and worn from entering and leaving warp.
The fleet is only visible for a few breaths, less than a minute.  Then, with a massive flash of light, the fleet jumps on.  The craft that have lost power are left behind, spinning and whirling away from the etheric wake of their powered fellows.  The Ghost spins on, and soon enough only stars fill its field of view until the fragment ends.


Mystery: Praedyth's Door

Praedyth opened his eyes.
The receiver sputtered to life.  It had taken him the better part of a decade to get his crude comm scanner working.  And another few years to get it transmitting.  Now, in the brief windows of time when the door to his cell opened, he would call for help.  He sighed, a deliberate act that caused him to cough roughly. He had no idea how much longer his body would hold out.  But then, that kind of thinking was all relative here, wasn't it?
Praedyth stared at the sprawling mass of metal and wires, listening to the tinny sounds coming from his makeshift speaker.  Before he spoke, he always made a point to listen.  The words, the concepts that flowed into his mind confused him.  Timelines and potentialities that might have already happened, might happen, might never happen.
A pattern was ever dancing in the edge of his vision.  At times like this, when the world rushed past him, he had to hold tight to the fact that he was still breathing.  He would often focus in on the intake, output, inbreath, outbreath, breath, breath, breath... hours later, he blinked.  Refocused.  The static had stopped. He had missed a window.
Once, he would have cursed and spat.  Now, he just shook his head.  A weak movement of the neck.
The Vex had decided their end.  The Guardians had interceded.  The Vex were fallible.
If the Vex can be wrong... if they can make mistakes... someday he could be free.  Someday he might leave the Vault, might see again the Traveler.
Until then he would listen, he would observe.  He would be the man on the outside looking in, a viewpoint into the consciousness of Minds that spanned galaxies.  He would try to understand the Vex.
Praedyth closed his eyes.


Rezyl Azzir - Before These Walls
Before These Walls
Rezyl Azzir was a man.
In time his kind would be called Titan. Mountains of muscle and might and metal. His collar was fur and teeth. His person clad in ornate, golden-etched plating, trophies upon his shoulders.
This was before the City was The City.
This is before the walls. Still in the shadow of the fragile giant above, but before.
Salvation seekers came — survivors; weary remnants of a people on the brink.
These were the days before reason took hold. Before study was merged with belief.
The giant was looked to as one would a God.  Maybe it still is.
Factions grew from the huddled masses. Like minds coming together to provide support, comfort. Over time these loyalties demanded loyalty. Differences that used to inform — viewpoints that when joined granted a larger understanding of the whole — became points of conflict. The sanctuary became divided. The shadow of Light grew darker. This, humanity’s last oasis, slowly fading to a mirage.
Great, powerful men and women, The Risen, stood at the Factions’ sides. Protection. Enforcers. Misused possibility.
Misery crept into this false paradise. Yet hope lingered.
Seeing the cracks in this society born beneath the giant’s fractured shell, some among The Risen challenged the dissolution of all that could be. They would no longer serve as instruments of oppression. They would be more.
Thus began an unnecessary war made necessary by greed, ambition... fear. And, in the chaos of this struggle, came the scavengers — aliens with appetites. A common enemy.
In the end, the scavengers were repelled and the Factions fell, their grip broken, though their beliefs remained. This was the earliest days of the Guardians, when might found purpose. Prosperity was in reach.
Rezyl had been a champion of these wars. A leader. Against the alien pirates he had been more. If the giant wasn’t a God, then maybe Rezyl was.
As the first walls formed — built of hard work and sacrifice — Rezyl and the Guardians stood against the alien plunderers time and again. More survivors arrived. More warriors.
The Guardian ranks swelled.
The City grew.
Hope blossomed. To Rezyl it was a currency. Hope bought tomorrow. Tomorrow bought the effort needed to survive today.
Yet Rezyl grew weary. Stories haunted his nights. Old stories. Those no longer told. Those locked behind tight lips for fear of what they may invoke. Whenever the sun dropped below the horizon and the moon rose high, Rezyl’s thoughts wandered. How safe was safe? How long could they fight with the Darkness still writhing?
So, every day Rezyl would fight and build and protect. And every day a city grew beneath the giant. And every night he would think about all that was never said and stare intently at the moon above.


Rezyl Azzir - War Without End
War Without End
&#8212; Eksori’s Ambush &#8212;
His foot pressed hard to the sun-cracked ground. Beneath it the Vandal’s neck gave; a hiss of ether burst free before dissipating.
Rezyl turned. Three Dregs charged. Their Captain raised his shock blade high, unleashing a battle cry to fuel their courage.
Focused fire spit from the muzzle of Rezyl’s full-auto. The Dregs fell.
To the Captain, Rezyl was a trophy that would buy unmatched respect among his Devil brothers.
To Rezyl, the Captain was already an afterthought. As ether leaked from the pirate’s broken body with each blow of Rezyl’s heavy fists, Rezyl’s attention had shifted to the unknown, but inevitable, battles to follow.
This was the state of things; conflict as common as breath.
&#8212; The Tescan Valley Encounter &#8212;
A Ketch with unfamiliar markings hung low between two peaks. A rare sight. Fallen flagships weren’t known to linger so close to the surface, preferring constant motion, like sharks on the hunt.
Skiffs circled below the Ketch as their crews prepared to plunder any treasures the facility held.
Rezyl leveled his rocket launcher. A digital ping signaled a lock, and a trail of smoke shot toward the lead Skiff.
Two more rockets followed in rapid succession.
The lead Skiff took two hits, lurched and retreated back toward the Ketch above.
The third rocket caught a trailing Skiff as the craft turned to engage its attackers.
Rezyl looked back. “Go.”
“You can’t take a Ketch alone,” Hassa laughed.
“The ship isn’t my target,” Rezyl had a plan. Hassa hated Rezyl’s plans with equal parts envy and concern.
“Lead the Skiffs away,” he continued. “We’ll meet— ”
“Can’t meet if you’re dead,” Tover shot back.
Rezyl smiled beneath his helm, “Go.”
Hassa and Tover throttled their Sparrows and disappeared into the heavy woods. Rezyl watched from cover as the Skiffs gave chase.
The Fallen below had taken defensive positions. The rocket attack caught them off guard but they were ready now, and there were more of them than he had time to count.
Rezyl raced down the slope, weaving between the thick growth of brush and pine, on a direct path for the Fallen clustered at the mountain’s base, his Ghost at his side.
“I need you to hang back.”
“Uhhh...”
“Trust me.”
“Always have.”
“How quick can you light my spark?”
“You expect to die? Can’t say that’s the best— ”
“How quick?”
“Quick.”
“Be ready.”
“For?”
“You’ll know.”
Rezyl’s Ghost slowed as the Guardian hit the valley floor. 
The Fallen opened fire.
Rezyl leapt from his Sparrow as it transmatted away, his rifle spraying lead at the entrenched pirates.
The Fallen’s Arc bolts peppered Rezyl. Eager Dregs rushed and were met with death as Rezyl marched forward.
A massive blast cratered the ground a few feet from the Titan. The Ketch had turned its guns on Rezyl.
Another blast impacted to Rezyl’s left and he stumbled. A third exploded directly in his path...
...and Rezyl fell.
From the treeline, his Ghost watched as the Fallen celebrated and a Skiff drifted down from the Ketch above.
The circle around Rezyl’s body parted and the imposing figure of their Kell stepped forward to admire his prize.
The chittering excitement quieted to a steady drone as the Kell lifted Rezyl’s limp body by the neck.
A chorus rose among the crew, growing louder as the Kell hefted Rezyl over his head for all to see.
Rezyl’s Ghost darted low through the crowd. He didn’t like Rezyl’s plan, but now he understood it.
Distracted by their Kell’s triumph, the Ghost’s presence went unnoticed until a beam of light swept over Rezyl’s body.
The mood shifted instantly, cheers turning to ravenous shouts.
The Kell’s gaze fell to the Ghost as the beam faded.
The circle began to collapse — the Fallen set to pounce.
As the Kell moved to toss Rezyl aside, cold steel met the underside of the alien marauder’s jaw, followed by a red flash as Rezyl pulled his cannon’s trigger.
Ether spewed in an angry geyser and the Kell’s grip loosened. Rezyl hit the ground and unloaded five more rounds into the Fallen leader’s torso. The monster dropped.
Frenzied, the Kell’s crew closed in like a flood.
Rezyl’s Ghost lifted above the fray, frantic, “Now! Now! Now!”
In one motion, Rezyl rose from a crouch, his fists clenched and raised high as a storm of Arc Light built within him, his full might raining down on the Kell’s chest. The shockwave of Rezyl’s attack hit like a meteor, shattering 
the Kell’s body and any Fallen within the Havoc storm’s radius.
The remaining Fallen staggered, knocked back and dazed.
Rezyl triggered his Sparrow.
His Ghost flew to his side, “We leaving?”
“Before that Ketch opens up on us.”
Rezyl punched the throttle as the Fallen crew opened fire.
“Let’s never do that again,” his Ghost pleaded.
Rezyl didn’t have to reply. If war was a constant, “never” was just an illusion. 
&#8212; In Defense of North Channel &#8212;
Winds from the south caught the smoke and began to clear the thick air.
Slowly, the citizens of the small, snow-covered settlement came out from their hiding places.
Rezyl surveyed their faces — each weary, but flecked with hope. 
Living in the wilds was all they had known. Surviving. Fighting. Hiding. These people had heard stories of a safer place, but tales of a better life were so rarely true.
Rezyl and his companions had been tracking these Fallen for weeks. Had they caught them sooner this town would have been spared. That any survivors climbed from the rubble to see another day marked this as a victory, but Rezyl 
was growing tired of small wins, however meaningful.
That evening, Rezyl and the others led a gathering of survivors on the long journey to the growing city beneath the Traveler. Some settlers remained behind, choosing to stake their claim in the untamed wilds.
Rezyl admired their resolve, but never looked back. He knew whatever death these brave pioneers avoided that day would come to them... someday... in one form or another.


Legends and Mysteries: Rezyl Azzir
Rezyl Azzir: The Whisper and the Bone
Something in Rezyl was telling him he shouldn't be here.
Something deep.
Something resembling fear.
He knelt, examining the dust-covered pile at his feet.
The skulls had been discarded with little care some time ago – decades, maybe longer.
The doors carved into the rock face were arcane – dark, gothic... other... and large.
The jagged finery of their archway spoke to an artistry that only served to strengthen the sinking feeling in his gut.
Rezyl had come to Luna in search of nightmares, and after his long journey—from the growing City beneath the Traveler to the ends of the Earth and beyond—he found himself face-to-face with the remnants of stories he'd hoped were nothing but lies.
He stood, a large man made small against the massive, looming doorway.
The knot in his stomach was telling him to turn back.
Instead, he moved forward, toward the doors; sealed, as they were, for ages untold.
After only a few steps, a shrill, heavy scraping cut the air.
The massive doors were opening.
Rezyl steadied his rifle as a lone shape, floating just above the ground, appeared from the deep black beyond the threshold.
The figure in the doorway—a dark, ethereal woman cloaked in tattered ceremony and armored with ornate bone—danced in the air.
Rezyl and the demon woman held their ground, contemplating one another.
With no warning the silent intimacy of the moment was broken by a booming, angry call from deep within the doorway. The sound, thick and pained, echoed across the narrow valley then fell silent.
After a beat that felt like eternity, the figure backed away into the dark.
The doors remained wide – an invitation or a dare, Rezyl did not know. Nor did he care.
The mighty Titan took steps forward.
“Uhhhh... I’m not sure this is a good idea,” his Ghost’s concern was impossible to mistake.
“Not sure that matters.”
“We’ve come. We’ve seen. Maybe the best course here is to warn others. Gather an army.”
“Maybe.”
“I’m just saying... It’s possible you can’t handle whatever it is we’ve upset here.”
“We’ve woken nightmares.” Rezyl’s attention was singular; focused intently on the dark beyond the threshold.
“The Hive were supposed to be gone.” The Ghost mulled the full consequence of this mistaken belief. “They’ve been silent for—”
“They’re not silent anymore.”
“That scream? These doors? They’re best left alone.”
“I can’t do that.”
Rezyl continued forward. Toward the dark. Toward the unknown.
“Stay here.”
“Excuse me?”
“Get distance. We don’t know what this is... what’s coming. Can’t risk you too close to an unknown.”
“And if you fall where I can’t find you?”
“If I fall... If I don’t return. Run. Tell the others. Warn them all... There are worse things than pirates.”
Rezyl steadied his rifle and stepped into the dark, as his Ghost lingered.
&#8212;-
Hours passed. More? Time was lost in this place, and with it any remembrance of hope... of promise... of purpose in the longing for a brighter tomorrow. 
Down amongst the shadows there were no tomorrows.
Down in the abyss there was no hope.
Rezyl’s footfalls echoed; lonely, measured steps with no guarantee of purchase. At any moment the world could fall away and he would be lost – the forgotten hero who foolishly sought nightmares.
Then, a presence. Sweeping and dream-like.
Rezyl leveled his rifle.
He could sense the witch, but found it impossible to track her in the dark.
Rezyl opened fire. Short, focused bursts to light the ebony corridor.
The demon witch circled just beyond the reach of each burst’s glow.
Rezyl kept firing, using the short flickers of light to gain bearing. 
The witch laughed and a thick black cloud engulfed Rezyl. 
The Titan kept firing but his movements were restricted. The cloud confined him, caged him.
He could hear her moving just beyond his sight as her laughter rose in pitch, cutting into Rezyl’s mind and soul like a tempered blade.
Rezyl flinched as the wicked woman began to speak in a tongue that resembled torture more than language.
The pain was searing, complete.
The demon approached the writhing hero.
As she spoke her violent words began to take shape, morphing from syllables of death to a known offering of haunted human languages.
The demon woman leaned in close... and whispered, intimately. 
Rezyl’s ears bled as she spoke.
"I am the end of 'morrows. Xyor, the Blessed. Xyor, the Betrothed. I am of the coming storm. These are not my words, but prophesy. Your Light will one day shatter and die. For now it simply offends... And you, dear, sweet, fragile thing, shall be made to suffer for your transgressions upon this holy ground."
As the witch fell silent, her hateful voice was replaced by a growing chorus of hungry, manic chittering and the rising thunder of an approaching flood.
Rezyl had come looking for the terrors that hide just beyond the light.
He found them.
Or, maybe...
...they found him.


Ghost Fragment: Mysteries 3

He always survives.
Helmet in one hand and torch in the other, Saladin Forge marches through the snow. He can sense the wolves emerge around him; only three of them come into view, but this group has followed him on his patrols since the Devils raided the Plaguelands. He has given up dissuading them. They’re defending their territory, and Saladin can relate to that. But they will not last long.
Nothing does. Not the Golden Age. Not the colony ships. Not the impenetrable walls of the Cosmodrome.
Not the Iron Lords.
He discards his torch, and glances up to see a familiar glow reaching out from the dark. He smirks. A horde of Devil Splicers returns his stare from the wreckage of the wall ahead.
The Splicers are doomed. Just as the Iron Lords were, when he and his allies opened that vault. As Fallen continue to pour through the gap in the wall, they remind him of his friends in their final moment: a crimson pulse beats in place of their hearts. SIVA.
He puts his helmet on as an Iron battle axe forms in his hand, the air around him bursting into flame. The first wave of dregs approaches. Saladin breaks into a charge, swinging the axe to bear as he smashes into a storm of steel and weapons fire.
As his axe bites, again and again, Skorri’s Iron Song haunts him. He calls upon Radegast’s strength. Perun’s sense of purpose. Timur’s questions. Felwinter’s cynicism. Silimar’s persistence. Gheleon’s reasoning. 
Jolder’s smile. 
He pounds the last Splicer priest like a burning hammer, blasting a crater into the snow and gravel. Frozen dirt rains down on the spent shells and the mounds of Splicer corpses that surround him. The Warlocks of the City have described meditation to him. He imagines it feels like this.He always survives. When nothing else does.
“Lord Saladin? What’s your status?” calls Shiro-4 through his audio feed.
“Just— Taking a walk,” he says, staring at the fifteen-foot divide he broke in the earth. He had to meet SIVA again. One last time.
“I’ve analyzed the Clovis Bray data.”Timur always said that Clovis Bray was the key. 
“Can you break the Splicers’ hold over SIVA?”How different would things be, had Saladin listened?
“Theoretically. Temporarily.”Would his friends still live? Would he?
“It might be enough. Perhaps our Guardian has turned the tide. I’ll be there shortly.”
He sees the wolves have formed up around him. Eight of them.He always survives.


Legend: Rezyl Azzir - The Triumphant Fall
The Triumphant Fall
The trigger clicked. 
Another empty clip slid from its purchase and dropped to the dark stone floor.
It was the last.
His rifle was dry.
Rezyl spun the weapon in his hand, grabbing hard around the barrel, like a club.
A new wave of chittering death was upon him – fragile but aggressive, overwhelming in their number and oppressive in their rage.
The stock of the rifle connected with skull after skull. 
They caved and fell.
Like the others before.
The pile of vanquished nightmares—half bone, half dust—grew at Rezyl’s feet.
There was a calm to him. An ease.
The chaos of battle was no time to panic. 
His swing was wide, but measured. No wasted movement.
A demon clawed at his back. Then another.
They were heavier than their frail frames would suggest.
He gave a shrug and shake, turned and hammered the stock hard into the side of one creature’s temple. Its skull splintered and the stock lodged deep in the wet, chalky mass beneath the bone. He made a fleeting effort to break the rifle free, but had to let it fall away as the rush of demons increased. 
Rezyl kicked the other monster to the floor, stepping on its neck while shifting to backhand a throng of attackers eager to make their killing lunge.
If the rifle—his battle-worn Inferno—had served to thin the herd and buy Rezyl time to assess the whole of the situation, his Rose would see him through.
It always had.
The Titan, awash in the ash and gore of his enemies, pulled his cannon and in one motion feathered the trigger to level the wretched beasts closest to him.
The bloom from each shot lit the cavern with flashes of red heat — a garden of angry roses blossoming in pointed defiance of this vile, hateful kingdom of shadows.
On the far end of the sea of gnashing maws, the wicked woman danced in the air.
Watching.
Waiting?
Rezyl’s cannon was loaded and ready to fire as if an afterthought.
He let loose another barrage and six more demons slumped, lifeless upon the pile.
The witch unleashed a violent cry. 
And as quickly as it had begun, the onslaught subsided.
The chittering fell from a deafening roar to an eerie chorus humming through the ebon haze just beyond his sight.
Rezyl stood, straightened his tired back and took long, deep breaths.
The storm had not been weathered. 
He could feel it in his gut.
He stood now, not at peace, but within the eye – the swirling, terrible lull before the waves came crashing once more.
The wicked woman laughed: a horrid, grating screech.
Followed by footsteps. Heavy and hard.
Thoom.
Thoom.
Thoom.
Thoom.
Rezyl squinted against the dark as he slid new lead into his cannon’s cylinder. 
A shape took form, approaching from the deep. 
A being of might and mass that dwarfed the Titan. 
A cleaver the size of an ordinary man—bigger—hung effortlessly in its hand.
Its body was thick with ornate bone – a living armor that was one with the beast.
Rezyl let out an accepting sigh.
The creature walked like a man burdened by untold sin – lumbering and slow, though its stride covered ground with unnatural ease.
To Rezyl, the approaching horror cut an imposing silhouette not unlike that of an ancient, disgraced knight. 
Maybe it had been heroic once.
Maybe here in these shadows, to the watchful eyes of the wicked woman and her rotting horde it was a hero still – only for a darker, sinister cause. 
The thought intrigued Rezyl.
The fight he had come all this way to find, the enemy he had hoped was nothing but a legend’s lie, seemed eager to greet him.
He smiled beneath his helm, then spun his Rose with a confident Hunter’s twirl, before steadying his aim and fanning its hammer one more.
The angry bloom lit the dark.
Six shots, center mass.
Rezyl’s lead pinged off a sudden, shimmering wall of black. 
The knight had conjured a protective barrier as if from nothing.
Unable to comprehend the creature’s arcane methods – dark magic or unimagined tech, or even a joining of the two, Rezyl didn’t care. He reloaded and prepared to face the unknown.
As the ethereal shield faded the beast raised its blade and let loose an aggressive, inhuman roar: Hell’s own battle cry.
Rezyl accepted the challenge.
His Rose gripped tightly in his vice grip, the Titan charged forward. 
He would meet the shadow’s rage head-on.
&#8212;- 
Two days had passed since Rezyl stepped from the dark corridors beneath the moon, back into the light. His Ghost pressed him for details time and again. He wanted to know all he could of the wicked woman and her promise of suffering.
Of the sea of mindless, chittering death.
Of the hulking knight and Rezyl’s epic battle.
The Ghost was enthralled and deeply concerned. If the monsters below the moon were active and aware, the City must be warned. Rezyl agreed.
As they watched another Earth-rise from the lonely quiet of the lunar surface and planned their long journey home, Rezyl pulled fragmented bone from the pouch that hung on his left hip: a reminder of the evil that lurked beyond the light, and the last remnants of the wicked woman’s betrothed.
And while he recounted once more the events of his time in the shadows he took his Rose from its holster and began grafting the bone to its steel frame — just another trophy, from another battle won.
&#8212;-
It was only later, and far too late, that the first whispers came and the bones revealed their true, jagged purpose.


The Shadows of Yor
From the Journal of Teben Grey
They tried to hide the truth, but we’ve followed its winding path— pieced together the fragmented map of events across time and space.
Quite literally, mind you.
From Traveler’s shadow to the dark corridors beneath the moon and the long, harrowing journey back again.
From the sickness inflicted upon the Crucible to the breaking of Light on the red sands.
From a forgotten settlement in the west to the horrors of North Channel and Velor. 
From the wilds of the Breaklands to the hateful cold of Durga.
Finally, then, to Dwindler’s Ridge, where Darkness met pure, angry fire.
We’ve traced Yor’s steps from beginning to end and back again.
We’ve studied his reign — the terror he seeded, the violence he wrought as if free of conscience. 
Only to discover a true and terrible thing: he was not simply the monster the legends claim him to be. 
Though, in finding this truth, we’ve come to understand the desire to build an armor of false narrative around all he’d done — all he’d become.
Yet, that understanding—our understanding of the need to control Yor’s mythology—should not be seen as agreement on the matter. Quite the opposite, actually.
When viewed as he truly was, not as he is imagined, we challenge the known mythologized depiction of the man who was Dredgen Yor. 
In our estimation, the monster so many see was, in fact, the best of us.
His sacrifice total. 
His vile means meant to carve a greater end.
They hide this truth because they fear the consequences of those who would dare follow in his footsteps.
To tempt the Darkness. To allow one’s Light to be tainted.
Few could walk that ledge and not fall completely into despair.
And while theories exist to support or contradict the purity of the gift we wield, Yor’s life offers a glimpse into unexplored possibility.
Orsa agrees.
He also believes, as I do, that there is a manner in which we may be able to replicate Yor’s damnation while avoiding the same heavy toll.
We will surely be judged for what it is we are about to achieve. And there will surely come a time when the lone gunman will want words — or worse. 
But we go now upon an old path. 
One we seek to make our own.
And should we fail, may the Light avenge all those we make to suffer.


Ghost Fragment: Lord Shaxx

“I beat you fair,” Cayde said. “Don’t ever—“
He raised his hand high to wag a finger under Shaxx’s nose.
“—try to outrace my Golden Guns.”
Two children ran by in a blur, laughing.
Shaxx shook his head slowly. “It was a tactical error. Won’t happen again.”
“Next time doesn’t matter. You lost today, and today you owe me.”
The Titan stared down at the Hunter, but said nothing, his hands clenched in fists. Cayde ignored the posturing and turned to face a desolate field of dirt and large rocks. A writhing mob of children spread across it, clusters of them barreling into each other as they bellowed and screamed. A much smaller number of elders waded in the chaotic sea of miniature people.
“What is this? What’s happening?” Shaxx demanded.
“This City has children. Children who must stay within designated safe zones.” The two Guardians watched as a boy climbed the largest rock on the field, about four feet in the air, and howled at the sky. “Of course they’re gonna go a little stir-crazy. Parents bring them out to this—you’d think it would have a name—this field every month, and they have at it. Better they hit each other than climb the walls.”
Shaxx stared at them.
“So. You’re going to pick two,” Cayde said.
Shaxx looked down at him. “Pick two what?”
“Two of the little brats. You’ll pick a team of two, and you’re going to train them in this... sport they play here. It’s some kind of tournament. You know all about those.”
Shaxx surveyed the field.
“This is ridiculous,” he concluded.
“That’s not the last time you’re going to say that today, but you’ve made your bed. Get comfy.”
“I can pay you Glimmer. Two Crucible matches’ worth. Why waste my time on children?”
A child sped past and waved at Cayde as Shaxx spoke. Cayde responded with an upward thumb. 
“I like bugging you. Plus, you’d be surprised what goes on out here that only these little miscreants know about.”
Beneath the helmet, Shaxx stared holes into the Exo’s face.
“They run very fast. Listen, I know you’re going to be you, but try to keep them intact. I make sure a Guardian they know comes to visit them once in a while. You weren’t the kids’ first choice, or even their tenth, but you were the only one I could get leverage on this week.”
Shaxx stood motionless, but his fury engulfed the air like a flame. Cayde turned to leave, his cloak billowing in the wind behind him. “I’m going to make so many Crucible bets while you’re gone.”
“You wouldn’t dare,” Shaxx began, but Cayde was already lost in a departing crowd of adults.
Shaxx let out a breath, then scanned the field again, past child after squirming child. He quickly discerned the two on the field with the best athletic potential. Two human girls, snarling as they swung branches at each other, seemingly impervious to pain. He walked past them, through the crowd, and several elders paused just briefly enough in their youth wrangling to let their jaws hang. Lord Shaxx navigated the unruly sea with grace, and headed toward a lone tree in a corner of the field. An Awoken girl and a human boy sat huddled below it.
As Shaxx’s shadow eclipsed them, they looked up at him with the same brightness in their eyes. “What are your names?” he demanded. “Runa,” said the Awoken with some disdain. She returned the blank stare of Shaxx’s faceplate. “My name is Lonwabo,” recited the human, more like a question than a statement.
“You look bored, Runa,” Shaxx observed. “And you look worried, Lonwabo.” He pointed at the boy, who scooted back, startled.
“As far as I’m concerned that makes both of you more intelligent than all these other dregs,” said the Titan. “You’re with me. I need the rules of engagement.” Shaxx stared at them, and they stared back. “Someone talk to me.”
They both spoke at once, and Shaxx listened in silence as they talked over each other to explain the game: Teams of two launch orb projectiles at each other, and players struck are eliminated. If both players on a team are eliminated, the team is out of the tournament, and their chance to play on the field is over.
“What do you call this drill? Skirmish? Supremacy?” Shaxx demanded.
“Dodge ball,” said Runa.
“We’ll work on the name. Follow my instructions, and I will lead you to victory.” 
Shaxx waved one of the adults over.
“Lord—Lord Shaxx?” said the Exo male.
“Shaxx is fine.” Only Guardians owed him respect. “Find my team a match. Sooner the better.”
Shaxx brought Lonwabo and Runa to the field, and kneeled. His hands engulfed their shoulders like a pair of descending moons. “My friends. Should you be killed, others lesser than you will take your place. Don’t fight for yourself. Fight for those poor fools.” 
Lonwabo opened his mouth as if to speak, but hiccupped instead.
Shaxx turned them both around to face the sun and the other team across the field. He kneeled so low that his face was level with theirs. The three stared at the opposition: two human boys, eyes glaring, fists balled in determination. Their elder stood behind them, her eyes wide as she recognized Lord Shaxx.
Runa yawned and rubbed her face, trying to clear the sleep from it.
Shaxx whispered to his new charges. “Crush them.”


Ghost Fragment: Lord Shaxx 2

The morning turned to noon as the sky darkened with dodgeballs and filled with the battle cries of children.
When it was over, Lonwabo had tears in his eyes, but he tried his best to stand straight. Runa had a bloody knee, and stared wordlessly at the winning team: the two snarling girls from earlier in the morning. The girls lifted an unrefined mass of plasteel, a makeshift trophy, over their heads, and they roared.
Shaxx stared up at the Traveler. It sat, buoyed by a mantle of clouds against a blue sky. It didn’t seem to notice him.
“Tell me what you’ve learned,” Shaxx said to Runa and Lonwabo, his faceplate fixed skyward.
They did, and spoke for a continuous three minutes. Shaxx nodded, slowly.
“So you’re not mad?” asked Lonwabo. His face brightened.
“You’ve gained more from this than the victors,” he replied. The three of them looked on as the two girls smashed the plasteel cluster into the dirt, and to the horror of all the other children, it shattered. Runa's eyes narrowed ever so slightly, a dodgeball gripped in her hands. Shaxx continued: “Victory is key to survival. You need it. Need to fight for it. But it teaches nothing.”
“Does that mean, in a way, we won?” asked Lonwabo.
“No,” Shaxx looked down at him. “No, you were annihilated.” 
“Oh,” said Lonwabo.
Runa continued to stare at the shattered trophy, and the winning team. She slowly turned the dodgeball in her hand.
“Let this loss drive you,” Shaxx said to both of them. “But the game is over. Your focus should be on what’s to come.”
Lonwabo stared down at his hands. “I think...I think I'm going to read a book,” he said, surprising himself as he uttered the words.
“We all make our own choices,” said Shaxx.
Runa said nothing as Cayde strode up out of a shadow in the afternoon sun. “Everything good?” the Hunter asked Shaxx.
“Do I look like I care?”
“Come on, buddy. The bet’s fulfilled. You don’t have to pout. Just remember not to challenge a Hunter with Golden Guns.”
“I can and I will. Rematch. End of day.”
“You’re on. I hope you’re ready to babysit ‘til the next Dawning—“ 
Runa’s ball struck Cayde in the neck: a stealth attack taught to her earlier in the morning. He yelped, more surprised than hurt.
“Who did that? Who did that, and how?” the Hunter demanded loudly, as the ball bounced away. The ball didn’t respond. Runa, Lonwabo, and several other children smiled.
“Shaxx. What have you been telling them?”
Shaxx stared silently down at the Exo Hunter until Cayde blinked. “I, uh, found my Sparrow,” Cayde said, to deflect. “I can give us a lift back to the Tower.”
As the other children and their elders dispersed, Runa watched Cayde’s Sparrow as it carried the two Guardians off towards the gleaming Tower in the distance. 
She gave a Titan’s salute as they disappeared from view.


Ghost Fragment: Fallen 6

THETA // NINE // SEVEN // RED // DELTA
High Priority Message – Commander’s Terminal 
EYES ONLY // TWILIGHT PROTOCOL
&#8212;-
Recon groups A, J, and T returned to TOWER ACTUAL at 03:00 local time. 
No casualties. Light injuries across multiple members of J and T teams.
Full debrief to follow.
&#8212;-
Breaking mission topsheet protocol, Commander. I want you to understand the scope of what we’re looking at here.
As the fireteams fanned out across the region, the Devils rushed to meet them. Our forces dealt with some post-SIVA pockets of Splicer activity, and every once in a while the Kings popped their heads up and scared the hell out of everyone. In other words: situation absolutely normal.
That’s a lie. The Fallen are abandoning the Cosmodrome.
Hawk fly-overs confirm. The House of Devils forces are simply not there anymore. They’ve been disorganized for the last few years, but there’s never been a shortage of ground troops whenever we staged a significant sortie. 
Intel source GREENRAVEN was right. And, for the moment, it’s worth assuming their report on the House of Exiles, House of Winter, and House of Wolves are also accurate. We’re fact-checking against independent fireteam reports from the field.
The kid all the SRL fans talk about — Marcus? He was in one of the fireteams out at the Cosmodrome. He pulled me aside, and said it to me straight: the Fallen Houses are gone. The siege is broken. The stalemate we’ve had with the Eliksni for what, a hundred years? It’s over. We won.
Commander, I’m not even sure they’re flying the banners anymore. The teams found huge mounds of burnt cloth and armor, ceremonial piles, in several of the most hardcore Fallen holdouts. 
What’s changed? Where have the Fallen gone? Why have they burned their banners?
I’m drawing up a plan to coordinate forces from the Queen’s Wrath, Felwinter Peak, the Warlock Orders, and more non-traditional outfits to follow up on these reports.
I believe your wisdom will guide us through the trials ahead.
—Sloane


Ghost Fragment: Eris Morn

The Tower’s med bay was still. Guardians might operate across the system at all hours but even in the heart of the Last City, there is sometimes... quiet.
The Awoken man lay upon the bed like a broken thing. Machines monitored his every twitch, every aspect of his physical status. The steady, quiet blip of his heartbeat was the dominant sound in the room. 
A small transplex window sat in one wall of the room. Hovering there, eerily still, was a Ghost. Its single eye reflected against the inside of the window, a steady red glow.
In the corner of the room sat a chair. Cheap, vinyl-covered, this chair could have been a relic from the Golden Age itself. And, suddenly, it creaked.
Because, in the stillness, there was another measured source of breathing in the room. 
Eris Morn settled back into the chair, allowing the dark wisps of power she’d summoned to effortlessly flow from her back into the night. The green emanations from her shroud were stark against the dimness.
Almost as an afterthought, the Ghost turned from regarding the window. For a moment, three eyes stared at one, before it turned back to its watch.
Her face implacable, Eris regarded the Awoken in the bed. 
His name was Asher Mir.
Irascible. Annoying. Cantankerous. She’d even seen Ikora Rey become... exasperated in his presence. Her lips quirked, very slightly, upwards. A kindred spirit, if she’d ever had one.
Her smile died as her gaze slid to his side. His Warlock garb had been stripped from his body, and she could see his pale blue chest as it rose and fell in the bed. His arm. His arm was gone.
In its place was a thing. The point where mechanicals knit with flesh was ghastly to behold, but the design was unmistakable to any Guardian who’d been in the field: Asher Mir’s arm was that of a Vex construct.
Her eyes flicked to the ghost at the window. It too, was transformed. The unmistakable outline of Vex technology encrusting and penetrating the small warden’s shell. That red, staring eye...
She stood, and stepped to the side of the bed.
Her voice was gentle, quiet, but its timbre filled the still air of the room. 
“I am leaving, my old friend.”
The man in the bed did not stir.
“Soon I will take my leave of this”—she put her hands up, to take in the med bay, the City, the Tower, Earth—“lie.”
She placed a gloved hand on the back of his blue, flesh-and-bone hand. “I wish we could have spoken, you and I, one last time. But my story here is done. I have avenged those I lost. I must find...”
She stopped, and beneath the gauze on her face all three eyes closed. For a moment she allowed herself to feel the dark tears that flowed, unending, down her face. The eyes reopened, and her strength blazed in the darkness.
“I must find a new path through the night. The Hive are vast, and ancient. A power from far beyond our realm. If we are ever truly to face them, ever truly to put an end to their hate, I must step beyond the safety of the City.”
She lifted her head and looked beyond the window to the horizon. To the grand sweep of the Walls, the edge of humanity’s reach.
“Be safe, Gensym Scribe. A storm is coming. And I will not be at your side when it finds its way to our shores.”
With those words, and a gathered locus of power, she was gone. 
The room returned to stillness. The blip of the Awoken man’s heart echoed from the machines. And the Ghost stared into the night, its red eye never blinking.


Ghost Fragment: Cayde-6

&gt; REMOTE VANGUARD DATABASE TEXT-ONLY SEARCH INITIALIZED.
&gt; WELCOME, USER "ACEOFHEARTS".
&gt; PLEASE ENTER SEARCH QUERY.
?&gt; news about cayde
&gt; THERE ARE 4 NEW ARTICLES SINCE YOUR LAST SEARCH 26 HOURS, 33 MINUTES AGO.
?&gt; thats way too low
&gt; SORRY, I DIDN'T UNDERSTAND "thats way too low".
?&gt; whos more popular than cayde
&gt; SORRY, I DIDN~XXX
?&gt; whos more popular than cayde-6
&gt; SORR ~XXX
?&gt; first article about cayde
&gt; THE FIRST CITY NEWS ARTICLE ABOUT 'CAYDE' WAS 126 YEARS 11 MONT~XXX
?&gt; 126 years ago?????? im way older than that
&gt; MAJOR EVENTS OF 126 YEARS AGO:
&gt; SIGNIFICANT PROGRESS MADE IN FACTION ACCORDS. RELATED: BRASK, A.
&gt; TRAVELER TRUE ORIGIN AND PURP~XXX
&gt; MINOR EVENTS OF 126 YEARS AGO:
&gt; FIRST 25-MATCH CRUCIBLE WINNING STREAK RECORDED. RELATED: REY, I.
&gt; CENTAUR PLANETOID "7066 NESSUS" RE-ENTERS SYSTEM AFTER UNEXPLAINED DELAY. RELAT~XXX
?&gt; did we get invaded by horse people
&gt; SORRY, I D~XXX
?&gt; did horse people ever exist
&gt; THERE ARE NO KNOWN ENCOUNTERS WITH QUADRUPED LIFE FORMS CAPABLE OF SPACE FLIGHT. SOME EARLY SIGHTINGS OF FALLEN RAIDING PARTIES MISTAKENLY IDENTIFIED THEIR METHODS OF RAPID LOCOMOTION AS EQUINE.
?&gt; did fallen ever ride horses
&gt; NO.
?&gt; what were we talking about
&gt; LAST 50 SEARCHES ACROSS ALL DEVICES, CHRONOLOGICAL:
&gt; "banshie real name" "banshie-44 real name" "scout rifle locker default password" "traveler giant eyeball" "giant eyeball planet" "giant eyeball aliens" "giant alien eyeballs" "delete image history" "how do i delete images" "accidentally set giant alien eyeball as terminal background" "how much do new terminals cost" "vanguard discount for new ter~XXX
?&gt; traveler
&gt; OVER 50,000,000 RESULTS FOUND. PLEASE NARROW SEARCH CRITERIA.
?&gt; traveler eyeball
&gt; OVER 70,000,000 RESULTS FOUND. PLE~XXX
?&gt; where did the traveler come from
&gt; OVER 10,000,000 RESULTS F~XXX
?&gt; traveler googly eyes terminal background
&gt; PLEASE CONNECT TO A DEVICE WITH AN IMAGE DISPLAY TO VIEW THESE RESULTS.
?&gt; traveler road trip snacks
&gt; SINCE THE TRAVELER'S FINAL EXODUS FROM IO PRIOR TO THE COLLAPSE, ECHO MESA HAS BEEN A POPULAR PILGRIMAGE DESTINATION FOR GUARDIANS. AS THE TRAVELER'S TRANSFORMATION OF THE JOVIAN MOON WAS INCOMPLETE, IO'S CLIMATE AND GEOGRAPHY DO NOT SUPPORT AGRICULTURE IN THE CONVENTIONAL SENSE. VANGUARD COMMANDER ZAVALA THEREFORE RECOMM~XXX
?&gt; zavala snacks
&gt; ALL RESULTS TAGGED WITH THE FOLLOWING RELATED SEARCH QUERIES REQUIRE TWO-THIRDS VANGUARD AUTHORIZATION FOR DISCLOSURE:
&gt; "ZAVALA SNACKS" "ZAVALA ACTION SNACKS" "TITAN VITAMINS" "EDIBLE ZAVALA" "ZAVALA ACTION VITAMINS" "VANGUARD VITAMINS"
?&gt; what??????????
&gt; ALL RESULTS TAGGED W~XXX
?&gt; ikora current location
&gt; WARLOCK VANGUARD IKORA REY IS CURRENTLY IN THE UNDERWATCH. WOULD Y~XXX
&gt; logout
&gt; THANK YOU FOR USING THE VANGUARD TEXT-ONLY DATABASE, USER "ACEOFHEARTS". BE BRAVE.


Ghost Fragment: The Reef 4

He let his captors drag him through the dirt. 
His arms ached. Two hands wrapped around each bicep like iron bands. He slumped, and the toes of his scuffed boots bumped over the stones and left trails in the dust. He kept his eyes low, a ragged and stained cloak hanging over his face. It was not a position to which he was accustomed. 
They debased him. They abused him. He bit the inside of his cheek until the blood filled his mouth. He struggled not to resist. 
They needed to believe he was broken. That he wasn’t a threat. 
It was the only way they would bring him before their kell. 
He’d spent weeks weaving the illusion that led the Fallen to him. He’d left bits of his trail where they couldn’t help but find them. He skulked from planet to planet—Mars, then Venus, then Mercury, then back again—following rumors and whispers. He’d hid from the Guardians, from his own people. He’d let everything they had built fall apart, while those still loyal to him searched every inch of this forsaken system. 
Now it was time to stop searching and start building. 
He would need soldiers who answered to him and no one else. Bodies to shape with will and magic and tech to his needs. These would serve.
He thought they would take him to a ketch. But they were deep underground. Not near the Cosmodrome, but... it didn’t matter. He’d never been particularly concerned with the geography of this blasted world. It was not his home.  
So he bent his head low, and listened to the guttural string of hisses and clicks issuing from the maw of a would-be king in yellow. A broken ruler of a broken house, and the last of his kind.
They were more alike than he cared to admit.
When the creature’s anger had burnt itself out, he raised his head to look at it. He did not need to speak. 
One kell rises, and another bends its knee.
And the prince felt the little hum of starlight ripple through him. The one that let him know she would be pleased with what he had done.



Lord Radegast

Radegast strode through the ashes. A cloud hung in his wake as he made his way to the top of the rise. Scars marred his armor, and his sidearm lay in the dust. He didn't need it, now. The battle was over.
This had been a mining outpost, once. A few buildings and a transport. Nestled amid a small forest, it had been like a precious jewel set atop the dull crown of the wildlands.
Now there was almost nothing left. The warrior began to walk slowly down into the valley. He pulled his helm from his head and let it drop with a muted thud into the ash. Of the forest, only stumps remained. Of the small village there was no trace; the buildings reduced to splinters. Here and there you could see dull gray signs of inhabitation.
At the bottom of the valley, Radegast came to the source of the ash, death, and violence. The Light-bearers were laid out in a row, simple cloth covering their armored and robed forms. There were five of them, and they had been lined up beneath the melted girders of the settlement's great hall. 
These warlords had terrorized this part of the wilds for years. Hundreds had died at their hands. 
Radegast turned as his companions crossed the valley floor to join him. They had been policing the dead, finding a fitting end for the settlers and miners of the outpost. Jolder came with a steady glide, energy and fire. Saladin, calm and slow, the weight of the dead on his shoulders. In formation behind them stepped Perun, her boots barely leaving a trace as she walked. They gathered before him.
"Never again." He intoned the words quietly. The others stood as battle-scarred statues. 
"We ride against despots and warlords. We hide in these enclaves, hoping that other Light-bearers will not find us. We fear each other." He shook his head, his fists clenched. 
"And we should not. We are stronger, together. We are mighty, together. All we have to fear is... this." He pointed down at the dead warlords. "Giving in. Allowing the power of the Light to blind us to what we truly are."
It was Perun, of course, who asked the question. "What are we?" No judgment. No reproach. 
Still, Radegast could feel their doubt. He turned upwards, and his eyes settled on the massive span that supported the hall. His eyes shone as he turned back to his fellows.
"We will be what the people need us to be. We will be guardians. We will be protectors. We will hold the last of us together."
His voice rang out across the still valley. "Our days of hiding are ended. Say it now, each of you. Who among the other bearers do you trust? Who can be counted on to ride with us?"
"Bretomart,” said Jolder.
"Deidris," said Perun.
"I trust only you, Radegast," said Saladin, and their leader scowled in response.
"What are you saying? What are we?" Perun asked again.
Radegast smiled. "We will gather those you trust. We will not wait for this"—he gestured around him— "to force our hand. We will ride against those that would use the Light against our own. Humanity must have protectors. Like the knights of old."
Around them, the dust swirled in the air. Shafts of sunlight coalesced in long slanted bars as the sun dipped towards the horizon. 
"Are you with me? Will you stand with me— as Iron Lords?"
In the waning light, their answers rang like thunder on the air.


Lady Perun

Perun stood at the top of a sloping, narrow path cut into a steep plateau. It was not yet dawn, and the valley below her was foggy and dark.
“Maybe he’s not coming.” This from a thin woman at Perun’s side, the mayor of the crumbling silvery ruins on the plateau behind them. “We didn’t want you wolves here. Lord Segoth knows that.”
In answer, Perun pointed into the valley. A red light had appeared.
The mayor let out a wail. "Segoth will kill us all. Or worse, he'll leave us to the Fallen."
Perun shook her head. “Not gonna happen.” 
The mayor looked at Perun and the two Titans standing on her other side. Then she turned and ran back into the village. 
The red lights were larger; already the faint, choppy whine of repaired Pikes filled their ears. 
"Nine of them," said Saladin.
“Nine, nine hundred, they still gotta come up the pass three at a time.” She cracked her knuckles. “Easy pickins.”
Radegast looked at her. "The north and south roads are undefended. If they change course—"
“They won't."
"How do you know?"
"It's about making people afraid— of Segoth, and of us. Seeing his goons coming a ways off, knowing he's coming for blood... the dread is part of the punishment. Anyway, he doesn't expect we'll still be here. So he takes the west road, 'cause it's the most visible, and the most direct."
Radegast frowned. "Then it's time to show Segoth that his tyranny will end."
"Not just Segoth," said Perun. She jerked a thumb toward the ruins behind her. Watchful faces poked out of windows and around tarps. "We gotta show them."
The three of them picked up large, rough-hewn metal shields. Behind their shields, each held a worn rifle, wrapped with cloth and chain mail.
The Pike-riders' faces were now visible through early morning gloom. A man in long red robes pulled his Pike ahead as they screeched to a halt.
“Well, well,” said Segoth. “The Iron Wolves.”
“Cease your insults,” Saladin barked. 
Perun shot him a surprised look. “That’s an insult? I kinda like ‘Wolves.’”
"Begone, wolves,” Segoth sneered. “These people are mine.”
"Wrong," Radegast retorted. "You abuse the powers the Traveler has entrusted us.”
Segoth smiled, and shrugged.
"Shields up!" Perun shouted.
A hail of bullets slammed into their shields. Perun, Radegast, and Saladin slid backwards on the dusty path. But they dug in their heels, and the shields held. 
"Return fire!"
Trapped in the narrow path, Segoth and his warriors fell one by one. 
Perun, Radegast, and Saladin reloaded and then Segoth was up again, his glowing Ghost at his shoulder. He fired wildly, and a bullet struck Radegast in the head. 
"Got him!" Perun shouted as Radegast collapsed.
"Covering you!" Saladin returned. 
Perun, Radegast, and Saladin died many more times than any one of Segoth's men. But any time one of them fell, another would cover them until they staggered to their feet again. The shield wall held. The three gave no ground. 
Finally, his robes singed and ragged, Segoth signaled a retreat. 
“Iron Wolves!” he shouted as his warriors scattered and a cheer went up from the people in the silver ruins. “I will slaughter everyone who has ever sheltered you!"
In answer, Perun shot him again.


Lord Felwinter

Deep inside a clandestine stronghold sat the Dark Horse Felwinter and Citan, Warlord of the 32nd Sector of Old Russia. A polished obsidian table rested heavily between them.
“Didn’t think you’d have the courage to come back here,” said the Warlord.
“Situational awareness. Not courage. I go where I can do the most good. Thank you for seeing me.” Felwinter’s voice sounded as hollow as his helmet. Citan wanted to knock it clean off the Iron Lord’s bony shoulders. He could do it with a single punch.
“As I recall, you used to have a throne on that Light-forsaken peak, ‘til you joined up with the wolves. You’re the only Warlord I know who held an entire mountain.”
“Felwinter Peak.”
“No one ever calls it that.”
“The Iron Lords do. Though they did ask me to take that throne down.”
Citan’s laugh shook the room. “How is losing territory ever a good thing for a Warlord?” Felwinter folded his hands atop the table. Underneath it, Citan made two fists, a crescent of Light flickering between them.
“Join us and find out,” said the Iron Lord. “Turn your sector over to us. You can still patrol it, of course.”
Citan’s voice lowered.  “Of course. You know I’ll refuse.”
“Then we’ll put you down, and take your territory by force. Over and over again if we have to.”
 “I invite you to my home after you abandon us, and you come to threaten me?” The Warlord stood, towering over Felwinter.
“To broker peace.” Citan thought that even the voice behind the helmet didn’t believe what it said. The floor shuddered as the Warlord upended the massive table with one hand.  It smashed into the opposite wall, as tendrils of Void Light passed through it and coalesced into Felwinter’s leaping form.
Citan had seen this parlor trick before, and judged that he could hammer the Iron Lord out of the air—
But Felwinter’s momentum continued into a knee-lift that smashed into Citan’s head as the larger man reared back to strike. The Warlord fell, the front of his helm shattering. Felwinter landed next to Citan’s prone body.
“Lady Jolder taught me that. I can’t say the Iron Lords haven’t done me any favors,” the voice intoned. 
“You know we’ll burn the world down before we let the Iron Lords rule it,” the larger man gasped, breathing out of his mouth, his face a bloody mess. The Void Light in Felwinter’s hand snapped—and so did the Warlord’s neck.
“Radegast is scattered. Perun is indecisive. Silimar wants to build a tower and hide. But they’re going to change the world; no one can stop them,” Felwinter said quietly to the corpse. He parted his coat and drew a bronze shotgun. “Will it be for the better? I don’t know. But they mean to end the fighting, so I don’t have to sleep with my back to the wall every night, Light in my hand. And that’s not nothing.”
He paused, as if waiting for something.
“Normally, this is where I ask you to reconsider. Tell you that you should come with me. See how powerful your Light can become. But I know you, Citan. What you do with the land you take, with its people. The other Lords—especially Saladin—might let you walk away. I’m not going to give them the chance.”
Citan’s Ghost sparked into view from above, bringing its eye to bear on its fallen charge. The Warlord emerged from a radiant column, a frenzied shout at his lips.
Felwinter’s shotgun cracked like thunder—once for the Warlord, and again for his Ghost.


Lord Gheleon

Gheleon wears three knives. Their names are Swiftling, Occam, Quietus. They did much of the work at Black Lona, in silence and at speed.
Between the roots of the ash tree that covers his den, Gheleon has stacked the Fallen bones collected from that one-night operation. The scavenged pieces of an Ahamkara, several jumbled coyote skeletons, and a fossil mastodon skull are mixed in with them. The bones are scorched and battered from the various grenades, bullets, and hammers he's taken to them. He keeps extensive notes on these stress tests in a tattered notebook with "Field Armor Experiments" scrawled on its cover. So far, though, he hasn't tried his knives on these materials. Between bones, in the joints and gaps, certainly, but not on them.
Gheleon flips Swiftling and catches it by the haft. He throws it, a single smooth motion, and it shatters a Fallen tibia.
He flips Occam and throws it. The knife clatters off an Ahamkara vertebra.
He flips Quietus and—
"Shanks and pikes, Efrideet!"
"Ooh, that's the last yip it's yipped," she says, picking up the coyote jaw that Quietus impaled. "Helmet, would you say?"
"Too brittle. Etherbone’s better. Flexes."
The others follow her in, wrinkling their noses. Usually they avoid his dim and earth-smelling den. Their presence suggests that Felwinter is doing something unpleasant, probably involving screams.
"Bone?" Saladin says. "Not carbon bronze? Not plasteel?"
"Bone’s always available as a last resort. Nothing else is."
"This is doomsday thinking," Jolder says, kicking aside fragments of bone. "We have your back. Our plate is strong. When'll you need scavenged armor?"
"If all of you were cut down around me, your Light drained past return, and my own armor was shredded. F’r instance."
There is a long silence.
"You always know what to say to make us feel better," Efrideet says.
"I could hide under your bodies until the threat left. Then I’d make a helmet from all your skulls and a breastplate from your ribs and gloves from your finger bones wrapped around mine."
There is a longer silence.


Lord Silimar
The Lord Architect
Lord Silimar died for his pile of stones.
He died when the Fallen took it in the battle of Alms. He died when the warlords destroyed it in their third great barrage. He died, blade through his eye, when the House of Devils smashed it in their westward campaign. 
He died on the structure’s great steps, cut down by an advancing line of Archons, and when the stonework fell to cluster bombs. 
He died in the structure’s sprawling shadow and upon its vaunted heights. 
Once, during a Fallen siege, while the battlements crumbled beneath his feet, he leapt from its parapet, so that he might know the structure more fully, might feel the weight of the sky pressing down on all that stone and steel. 
“The better to raise its next incarnation,” he said to those allies who later questioned his madness. As the Fallen charged, Silimar refused to abandon what he’d built, though others retreated to a stronger position. “Go,” he told them. “Save yourselves. I’ll slow them down.”  
The enemy came in overwhelming force. A breaking wave of blades and firepower and death. Atop the structure’s central bulwark, Lord Silimar held his ground. 
“Take it if you can, you bastards!” He shouted at the swarming enemy.
He leapt upon the great edifice and there put up a final stand as the enemy engulfed him. He died with his dagger in the guts of an Archon while the great structure shook with explosions and rained stones down upon the land.  
Later that night, when Lord Silimar rose again from the ashes, he found Lord Saladin already there and waiting, standing near the place where he’d made his final stand.  
“This structure is doomed,” Saladin said in the darkness. “You must know this.”
“Not doomed,” Silimar said. “Fated, perhaps. Doomed is too strong a word.”
“Use whatever word you like, but there’s another word that applies to this place: indefensible. And yet after each defeat, you rebuild.”
“I seek only to build it more perfectly.”
Lord Saladin shook his head. “Only a fool would raise the same structure again and again.”
“These stones are like us,” Lord Silimar said. “Don’t you see?”
Silimar rose to his feet. He walked among the smoking ruins. The shattered blocks. He glanced down at the piled corpses of dead enemies. The charred remains of a once-great citadel now reduced to scattered rubble.
“They knock us down, you and me,” he continued. “But time and again, we rise. Like this place.”
“Eleven times they’ve destroyed what you’ve built,” Saladin said. “Why rebuild what will be knocked down?”
“Because one time they won’t be able to,” Silimar said. “And when that day comes, when this perfect, indefensible structure stays standing, then we’ll know.”
“We’ll know what?”
Lord Silimar looked at his old friend. Then he turned and strode the broken stones, and looked out over the ruins that spread away into the distance. “Then we’ll know it’s safe to build our city to the sky.”


Lady Jolder

At the west end of a deep valley stands a castle, its crumbling stone walls patched with glossy sheets of metal and glass. The castle entrance is a wrought-iron portcullis flanked by two motion-sensing turrets. In the valley below, just out of the turrets' range, rests a gold-and-gray transport ship. The symbol of the Iron Lords shines with an otherworldly glow on its folded wings. The Iron Lords have come to challenge Warlord Rience.Two Sparrows skim lightly over the grass as they head toward the ship, the castle at their backs.Perun and Radegast dismount.They nod to each other wordlessly, and part.
Perun walked up the ship’s gangplank and made straight for Jolder's room. She hit the door controls and stepped inside.
"I'm almost ready," Jolder said, before Perun could speak. 
Jolder stood next to a chest full of weapons, armor and other gear.  She flashed Perun a bright smile as she cinched the straps of her gold-and-white cuirass.
The corners of Perun's mouth twitched. "I came to tell you Rience agreed to the single combat. Guess I don’t need to.”
Jolder smiled. "I figured he would. Your plans have a way of working out."
Perun leaned against the doorframe. "Saladin and Efrideet both volunteered to be your second."
"Hm."  Jolder took a pair of gauntlets out of the chest and put them on. "Saladin's better at staying calm under pressure."
"We need a second, it's ‘cause you're dead. No one will be calm."
"Right. Efrideet, then. She fights better when she's angry." Jolder tightened the straps of her gauntlets, then made a fist. "Hold this?" She handed Perun a shield, golden and reflective as a mirror. 
Perun rolled her eyes, but held the shield up, front toward Jolder.
Jolder took a small pot of black liquid and a thin brush out of the chest, then stood in front of the shield and began lining her left eye with kohl. "Who’re they sending?"
"Melig."
"Do you know that, or do you just know?"
"Just know," Perun said. "Rience will figure we send you. So, how to respond? He thinks bigger is better. So, Melig." 
Jolder smiled. "Tell Rience he can send two. Otherwise—" Jolder finished the line of kohl with a flick of her wrist, leaving a sharp black wing at the corner of her eye. "My battle-paint will be for nothing."
Perun chuckled drily, without smiling. "Not the best tactical move."
"But it'd be more fun."
Perun grunted.
Jolder arched her brow, her right eye half-painted, and looked over the shield rim at Perun. "What are you thinking?"
Perun ran a hand through her close-cropped hair. "Don’t know yet. Seems... too easy. I were Rience, I'd be thinking about poison, neurojammers... Man like him with nothing to lose, might even target your Ghost."
"Perun." Jolder took the shield from Perun's arms and placed a gauntleted hand on Perun's shoulder. Her eyes flashed between lines of thick black kohl as she smiled. “It’s me.” 
Perun sighed, then placed her hand over Jolder's. "True.” 
Jolder slung her shield across her back, tucked her helmet under her arm, and hefted her enormous battle-axe casually over one armored shoulder. In her full battle harness, she towered over Perun, the plates of her gold-and-white armor gleaming in the dim light. 
"All right," Jolder smiled. "I'm ready."


Lady Skorri

"This would be a lot easier if you all had run your names by me before you got 'em."
Skorri puts the pen in her teeth and crumples up a piece of paper. It joins dozens of others on the floor. Keeps muttering to herself.
"Felwinter. Radegast. Gheleon. Hell, even Efrideet, not that she's likely to get a verse now. Haven't seen her in weeks, anyway. Bunch of dactyls, all of you."
Perun strides in, a rifle under each arm. Notices Skorri and smirks. Skorri grins at her.
"Why couldn't the other Iron Lords have followed your lead, huh? 'Perun, in shadow clad, behind the shield / through cleansing fire our hiding foes revealed'."
Perun doesn't slow. "Did you just make that up right as I walked in here?"
"Of course I did! You're iambic! You give me something to work with! Mmm, we do work well together."
Perun laughs despite herself, shakes her head, leaves.
"Hardly my best effort, though. Plus, there's no room for Silimar in there, except for his shield."
She picks up the pen again, fiddles with it, stares up at the ceiling.
"Maybe something about that shield? Keeps everything out, keeps everyone out, protects himself so he can't get hurt? Hmm. Too on the nose? He does have a nice nose."
Two more Iron Lords walk through, all business. One rolls her eyes at Skorri, splayed on the couch. Skorri doesn't notice them enter or leave.
"Radegast goes in, I know that much. Known the old man too long to leave him out. Might even make it into the chorus. After Skorri, though. That goes without— hey, Gheleon, what's the rush?"
The Hunter stops, halfway out the door. Turns around slowly. Doesn't speak.
"I thought you were supposed to be the careful one. In such a hurry to get back out there?"
"A quick death is preferable to the alternative."
Skorri makes a face. "Well, that's rude. Hey, I don't suppose you'd be willing to cut out your name's second syllable?"
Gheleon sighs. "You're STILL working on the Iron Song? Why don't you just change the meter if it bothers you so much?"
"Change the— are you kidding me? Why don't YOU just change to using a... a whip?"
Gheleon closes his eyes, turns, walks out.
"'Change the meter'. Unbelievable."
"You know, Skorri, some of us have real work to do."
Another Iron Lord. This one's young. Skorri doesn't recognize him.
"Have you forgotten about the ambush tomorrow? Or are you too busy writing limericks?"
Skorri's looking up at the ceiling. No response. The young one's mad now.
"A lot of people are relying on us, Skorri. If you don't think you're up for—"
"Hunters up top, 11 o'clock on the ridge. Two shots to the Servitor, draw their attention up. I come in with Radiance, Dregs are blinded, Jolder's powered up, she rushes in, splits 'em in half. You hopefully don't trip over your cloak like you did back at the Flood Zone, but I'm not optimistic. The rest come out of the cave, take out the Captain, Felwinter finishes off the south group with a Bomb, everything else is candy."
The young one still looks mad as he leaves.
"'The Dregs are blinded, Jolder's powered up / she rushes in and splits the group in half.' Huh. Needs work." Skorri picks up the pen again.


Lord Timur

Timur’s Stormtrance tears through a gang of Dregs as Felwinter stumbles through the shifting sands behind him, miles inland of what remains of the Arabian Shores. 
“Where are you taking me?” Felwinter rushes to Timur’s side, his eyes jumping focus, anticipating another attack. 
“You seem far too obsessed with these ‘Warminds’.” Timur stops and stares into the horizon as if smelling something; not danger, discovery.  He draws his fellow Iron Lord close. “Tell me, Felwinter,” he whispers, “what does the word Seraph mean to you?” 
Felwinter leans in to whisper back. “Old Earth theology? I know its power well; one can make great use of the traps of faith and its myths.”   
“Damn you, Exos!” The whisper game abandoned. “Do you even ponder the before? Or that number etched into your ‘flesh’? Do you see yourself in your dreams? Th—”
A shank. Then another, then more. Felwinter hits the ground and reaches for his sidearm. Timur hates interruptions and his face shows it. A wash of Arc Light grows in his hands and erupts as the pack of machine dogs falls nearly in unison. 
Timur grabs Felwinter, bringing him back to his feet, and says, “Have you ever wondered what it is that calls to you in that void of memory, where the edge of the past infects your present?” He returns to his game of whispers. “It’s an itch you can’t scratch, isn’t it? Well maybe you can.” 
“You think I am one of them? That all Exo are—” 
“Lord Felwinter, I know what you are. And you are no Warmind or even one of its puppets. Come. You must see this.” He makes a gesture like he’s casting a spell over the sand. “Follow my footfalls; this area’s rigged with dirty Fallen nonsense.” 
They struggle up the dunes. Felwinter glides ahead. As he lands, a sandstorm rises to meet him. More shanks. Hundreds of them. Behind them, a lone Vandal sniper lays down covering fire. 
Felwinter, realizing his mistake, runs back toward Timur, shielding himself in the Light of suns. 
Timur continues forward, grasps the brass familiar around his neck, and closes his eyes. A slight hum rises and his trance takes him deep into the sea of shanks, his trusted Lash raised and tearing his path through the darkness. Felwinter is slow to follow, but fast enough to witness Timur’s focus turn shanks by the pack against their Vandal keeper, chasing him back toward the sea. 
Timur rushes to Felwinter, examining his head with the intensity of a Cryptarch. 
“Hmm. Warmind. You are certainly as stubborn as one.” 
Felwinter awkwardly pulls himself away and out of Timur’s reach.
“With all respect, Lord Timur, whatever game you are playing with me has gone on far too long. This is just another Dead Zone.”  
“Oh, is it?”
Timur directs Felwinter’s eyes toward the eastern horizon, where a building crowned with the initials “C.B.” is now in view.
“We all have creators — humans, Exo, Warminds, even those poor Awoken. Some are just easier to find.”


Iron Battle Axe

A relic from the days of the Iron Lords, the Iron Battle Axe channels energy from an external source through a series of capacitors embedded in the blade. These capacitors enhance Solar Light, allowing the user to trigger focused blasts at their enemies.




The Fallen
"We have butchers at our gates - four-armed and eager for slaughter."
The Fallen are ruthless scavengers. Brutal and uncaring, they arrived on their massive Ketches in the wake of the Collapse to loot and pillage our devastated worlds.
There are hints of ancient nobility to the Fallen - the scars of lost grandeur. The Kells of their scattered Houses still claim to be royalty. But they leave only grief and wreckage in their wake.


Dreg
"Don't underestimate a cutthroat, or you'll get your throat cut."
Dregs cling to the lowest rung of Fallen society. Docked of their lower arms in a ritual of humiliation and obedience, Dregs seek to prove their worth. Only a few will survive to gain promotion and regrow their limbs. Their suicidal bravery is fueled by ambition and shame.


Shank
"Death flies on tarnished wings."
Shanks are the bulldogs of the Fallen. Small and tough enough to go where Dregs won't fit, they scout, keep watch, and patrol. Fallen Walkers deploy Shanks from internal bays for tactical support and field repairs.


Vandal
"You could drown the City in the blood they've spilt."
Soldiers, brawlers, assassins, and scouts, Vandals are the seasoned regulars who fill out the skilled roles within a Fallen crew. Whether from distance or up close and personal, they are seasoned, efficient killers, with an arsenal of weaponry and tech to match their bloodlust.


Captain
"Waves of them smashed against our walls, hissing and wailing. But it was the one who stood beyond them, silent and scenting the air, that froze the blood in our veins."
Having clawed and knifed his way to the top, scattering bodies and limbs in his wake, the Captain is the strongest and most ferocious member of the crew he musters around himself. His ration of Ether is the largest, his blades the sharpest, his guns the finest. Upon his shoulders hangs the flag of his House, if he swears loyalty to any. For his crew, the slightest hesitation to comply earns a slash from his sword. Defiance results in immediate amputation, if he is in a good mood, or death, if he is not.


Servitor
"A floating light, a sleepless eye. Their hope, their faith, their sustenance."
Servitors are living relics of the once-mighty Fallen civilization. Packed with ultra-sophisticated machinery, they process matter and energy into the Ether that the Fallen depend on for life. In battle they support the Fallen with defensive systems and their own powerful energy weapons. Outside, they anchor Fallen comms and provide vital technological acumen.
Servitors have complex relationships with each other and with their Fallen crews. Servitors are attached to a Prime, a massive Servitor which exists in unclear symbiosis with a Fallen Archon. The Archon conveys the Kell's wishes to the Prime Servitor, and exerts some measure of control. Recent developments suggest that Prime Servitors are more than a focus of worship and logistical activity. They may play a key role in Fallen star flight.


House of Devils
"The Devils take whatever nature has yet to claim."
These are the scourge of the City, the shadow below our walls. This is the House that led the battle at the Twilight Gap, the House we tell our children about to frighten them into behaving.
The House of Devils have now devoted great strength to pillaging the Cosmodrome in Old Russia, hunting for something buried below. If they are not held in check, whatever they find might prove the City's undoing.


House of Exile
"They live among the Hive. Of course they're crazy."
There is more than a whiff of desolation about these Fallen. Their ranks are swollen with Dregs; their rags threadbare. Perhaps this is a new House, gathered from the outcast malcontents and disgraced castaways of the others, galvanized by pride or hate or the desire for freedom. 
Be watchful. If this is true, they will surely be hungry to secure their position - and that may drive them to bold action.


House of Winter
"Their greed is as much a threat as their blades."
The Fallen House of Winter, led by the ruthless Kell Draksis, have been found operating in and around the Ishtar Sink on Venus. Their interests there seem directed at the ruins of the Academy along the Shattered Coast, but there are concerns that their focus may, in actuality, be directed elsewhere - toward the ominous Citadel that rises like a warning above the Waking Ruins.


House of Kings
"Another great House hides among us..."
The colors of the House of Kings are rarely seen. They act with brutal contempt, as if they hold their rivals - other Fallen and City alike - in disdain. We have yet to grasp the full measure of their strength.


House of Wolves
"These ones are mine."
The bulk of the House of Wolves now falls under the control of the Queen of the Reef. There are many stories of how this came to be, but they are too varied for the truth to be separated from rumor.


Ghost Fragment: Fallen
Cayde-6 Reminisces
Okay, okay, I'll tell the story about that one Fallen.
It didn't happen like that. We didn't, you know, do anything actively - no handshake, no icy stare of grudging mutual respect. I don't even know which hand you would shake. Do they shake hands? It must be complicated.
Anyway, it was like this. I was on the Moon. I cracked a Hive structure near Mare Imbrium, looking for a Shrine, and they just - swarmed. Ranks and ranks and ranks of Thrall, pouring out between the columns, but the columns were Knights, and all the shadows behind them rose up hissing sorcery.
Of course I ran. 
I had a line of egress and while yes it was full of Thrall I had a backup too. I went upslope. Took cover in the shadow of a crashed Phaeton. Emptied my machine gun, ducked down to reload, and saw her at the other end of the hull, killing Thrall: a Fallen in Exile colors, bannered in the marks of a Baron, though the flags were claw-torn and stained with Hive ash. She was alone. I think she must have lost her crew.
I didn't really have time to shoot her and she didn't really have time to shoot me so we just went back to killing Hive. Knights pushed me out into the open and back up the range to a high stone saddle in the shadow of an old interferometry array. It was good ground so she came up there too.
For a while we just killed things which is hard to make interesting in a story so I'll pass it over.
At the end the Wizards came. I climbed the array to get an angle on them and she fell back to the base of the antennae where she broke her swords off in a Knight. I saw that happen and I don't know if I can tell you how I felt. She was another living thing with a mind I could understand and she hadn't howled at me or tried to eat my Ghost. I cheered when the Knight went down.
When I came down, empty on all guns, she was slumped against a bulkhead staring at me with all her tiny black eyes. Ether leaking out of her like smoke. The Knight hadn't died easily. Downslope the last Wizard moved like fire behind another line of Thrall.
I looked at her and wondered how many innocent human lives she'd ended on those broken blades.
She did the strangest thing then. Took the last shock pistol from her bandolier and threw it between us, as if to offer it. When I went to pick it up she tried to knife me, but she was slow, and when I broke her arms and opened her throat she didn't seem surprised.
To this day I wonder if she hated me, or wanted to make me kill her, or just felt she should spare me the choice.
I did kill a few Thrall with that pistol.


Ghost Fragment: Fallen 2
A ROUTINE SUMMATION OF DARLINGS WON AND HEROICALLY HELD DURING THIS PROFITABLE CYCLE, AS COMPILED BY A DREG
ammunition of rich makes, quantity adequate to incinerate 6X6 foe
11 operational weapons, alien design, suitable for salvage
3 explosive charges of obvious design, suitable for salvage
1 cabal fusion reactor, disabled but perhaps repairable
61 machines, alien, inoperable, unknown significances
13 alien machines, inoperable, known significances
3 glints
7 herealways
1103 twists of essence
15 human body parts, kept for study, scorn
55 human adornments, full of glory and warm memory, worth the cost of their acquisition and more so
some ether, quantity negligible
considerable experience in battle
4 dregs dead, rendering House of Winter weaker
1 dreg honoring self and House, leading to consideration of fabricated arms
1 disabled Fallen skiff, scrubbed of House identity and stories
1 Fallen story found beside the disabled skiff, unknown House, partly corrupted, rendered as follows:
what others call dark which is not I know what it is but no time room calm given for an appropriate telling so I say only that what is not shadow is an ally and a wonder and I respect what I cannot steal from and you cannot take from the dark you can claim only pain from the dark and that is why the dark is worthy of love beyond all other love that astonishing ability to evade being robbed
I love what I will not name
1 story, Fallen and found beneath the skiff, unknown House, story uncorrupted 
subsequently the second recording has been washed away
operator error
I know what no one else knows and now I am a marvel with ten thousand arms


Ghost Fragment: Fallen 3

Ask them our name. Ask your masters what they call you. Ask the hollow, the hateful, the Awoken with alien dreams encysted in them! Ask them our name!
Fallen. They name us Fallen.
Listen to me, Wolf-born! Heed me, Whirlwind-scattered! I am the ghost of Cybele, the cunning claw of Iris, betrayed, chained, encrypted by the Queen, sent back from the Darkness to save us all! The days of Kell and House end now. The calendar of slavery and abasement goes to the fire. We are a new calendar! We are an age of beginnings! Each of us is a day!
I am the first, Kell of Kells, and I am the last, the Dreg of Dregs. I have conquered and been conquered. I am all of us and all of us are I. In the shape of my life I bind up all of us, all of our fury, all of our grief, all the lives we have wasted against each other. Together we speak our new name.
Remember the hope that brought us here. Remember the age before the Whirlwind, when ether ran free, when we ruled ourselves and our futures as kings. We wanted more than glimmer and glints and herealways. Always remember that we came to this star in hope. And remember that we were denied! Remember the City of the Death of Children, the City That Docks, which claimed for itself the Great Machine that might have saved us. Remember the City that even now sends its ghouls to murder our Primes, starve our ether, and leave our young to die gasping. Curse that City and its name. The curse is just.
We gathered to take that City and save ourselves from extinction, saying to each other, we must be a storm, a Whirlwind, a darkness, for it is said that only pain may be stolen from the dark, and we can let no more be stolen from us. We gathered to fight against our twilight, King and Devil and Winter, all of us but us, the Wolves. Why? What kept us from the Gap?
The Reef. The Queen. The slavers who played us against each other and docked us into subservience. These sly sterile un-people, these mirages with cold minds twinned to their own, these Carybdis butchers, they set us against each other. She played us. She made herself our Kell.
We were fools, o children of the Whirlwind. We fought each other when we most needed unity. I fought my rivals when I should have fought the Queen. But I remember now, my dregs, my captains, my Kells, each of us is all of us and I remember: we are a people of resilience. I am the Kell of Kells because I want what we have lost. I am the Dreg of Dregs because I remember that a dreg will grow back what is lost to him.
Ask them my name! Ask them with the shock blade and the shrapnel launcher! Ask them with the skiff and the ketch! Ask your masters by what right they master you, you who have been hardened by centuries of flight, you who inherit the Whirlwind! Ask the Queen for her throne!
Ask them our name. Let them answer: you are Skolas, Kell of Kells. You are Fallen no more.


Ghost Fragment: Fallen 4
The Scatter
This happens long ago, but not too long to matter.
Ceres rules the Asteroid Belt. Ceres is the white queen of this space, four hundred million kilometers from the Sun. Ceres is round. Round means power, out here: nothing else in the Belt is big enough to crush itself into a sphere with its own gravity. Ceres has its own chemical stars. Shavings of salt and ice that glint in orbit. Like a crown.
There are other lights, newer stars, newer crowns. Warship engines. Another queen is coming to conquer Ceres, because Ceres is full of warrens and shipyards and habitats, because Ceres is round and lucky as a Servitor. Because Ceres is full of the Wolves she wants to rule.
Shark-fierce ships gather in squadrons and tribes. Skiffs. Ketches. The Kell of Wolves has a fleet gathered here. The Kell of Wolves heard the call, and summoned the House of Wolves to prepare for the great battle on Earth. The salvation of the Kell's people depends on their ability to shatter the City. It's a matter of survival.
Now the Wolf fleet turns to meet the Queen.
See the squadrons of Skiffs wrapping themselves in stealth, cold and transparent, knifing out invisible and brave? See the Ketches like broad blades, the bright thoughts of a Servitor guiding them to battle? See them turning, accelerating, waking up their jammers and their arc guns? All doomed. The Kell of Wolves will never make it to the Twilight Gap. The Kell of Wolves put all that strength in one place, and now the Queen of the Reef is coming to break it.
Out there, coming out of the dark, are the Awoken. Not so great a fleet, is it? Little fighters scattered around like four-pointed thorns. Destroyers and frigates and salvaged hulls pulled out of the Reef. And right at the front, at the speartip, flies the Queen.
The Wolf Kell, practical, brave, tallies strength of metal and equipment. The Kell considers the chance that the Awoken have some secret weapon, something gleaned from hulks in the Reef or whispered up by the witches, and sets that chance aside. The Kell thinks the House of Wolves can win decisively. So the Kell sends challenge and warning. I AM LORD OF WOLVES, the Kell sends. YOU ARE AN EMPTY THING WITH TWO DEAD SOULS. THIS IS MY HOUSE. THESE ARE MY TERMS. SURRENDER AND I WILL ONLY TAKE YOUR SHIPS.
The Awoken fleet cuts their engines. Drifts. Wolf strike elements, torpedo-armed Skiffs hidden under jamming and camouflage, find their firing solutions.
The Queen's ship broadcasts. I AM NOBLE TOO, she says, OH LORD OF WOLVES.
The Kell doesn't mind a little banter before the kill. It gives the Wolf ships longer to draw the battle away from Ceres. The Kell replies. YOU HAVE NO LINE. YOU HAVE NO POWER. Captains and Barons signal their readiness, Skolas and Pirsis and Irxis, Drevis, Peekis, Parixas, all of them bound by fear and loyalty, all ready for war.
STARLIGHT WAS MY MOTHER. The Queen's ship whispers in eerie erratic radio bursts. Servitors begin to report a strange taste in the void. AND MY FATHER WAS THE DARK.
Here, at last, too late, the Kell begins to feel fear. CALL ON THEM, THEN, the Kell sends, one last mocking signal before death and ruin, AND SEE WHAT HELP THEY OFFER.
So the Queen calls, as only she can. Every Servitor in every Ketch hears it. Every Captain and Baron roars at their underlings as sensors go blind, as firing solutions falter, as reactors stutter and power systems hum with induction. Stealth fails. Space warps. The House of Wolves shouts in spikes of war-code, maneuvers wild, fires blind.
Behind the Queen's ship, the Harbingers awaken.


Ghost Fragment: Fallen 5

Frozen on the monitor was an image of Sepiks Prime, the massive Prime Servitor that had been as a god to the House of Devils. Where once its plating was pristine, carefully maintained by the Archon Priest and his acolytes, it was now splotched with red growths. The ether power emanations that once glowed strong and pure were obviously corrupted.
Guardians had slain this god. And now it was reborn, through SIVA.
Variks of House Judgment sneered at the abomination. “Golden Age project, yes?” he clicked, turning to the Crow. His field agent was a young Awoken woman. “Technology of old Earth. Learned from the Great Machine.”
The Eliksni burbled to himself in mocking laughter and gestured with his lower hands. “You do us proud. Go. Speak with other Crows, learn more about these... Devil Splicers.” She nodded, a small smile on her face, and left the chamber.
Variks allowed himself a moment of silent contemplation, looking at the now-closed door to the information suite. As always, it was lit only by the light of the dozen or so monitors in the room. 
The Fallen interlocked his upper hands. He bowed his head as he allowed himself to really feel the impact of that abomination on the screen. He never would have allowed anyone else to see this, but it hurt. Seeing the horror that was “Sepiks” made anew.
His people had fallen. 
Variks stared at the image of Sepiks. And as he’d done before, he wondered what would have gone differently had he been there, among his people. Could he have stopped this before it happened? Could he have found them a better way?
“Must be a better way for Eliksni.” He clicked quietly. “Must be a way to stop the Fall.”


Splicers

Within each Fallen House is a secret collective of tinkerers, bioengineers, and scientists devoted to the evolution of their species. These devout engineers are known as Splicers. 
The Splicers’ purpose is found in the unraveling of biological and mechanical truths. They tear into systems to reveal their value—either as tools for survival or as advancements worthy of their reverence and deification.


Devil Splicers

The Fallen put Splicers, their most revered scientists, to work investigating and understanding SIVA, the Golden Age wonder discovered in the Cosmodrome. 
As the Splicers’ knowledge of SIVA’s potential began to take shape, a rift grew between their techno-religious leaders and a younger, more ambitious sect of their rank-and-file – Devil Splicers.
The leaders saw in SIVA a new god to worship. The Devil Splicers saw a way to become one with the very technology they worshiped. SIVA was a means to a greater end: evolution.



Shock Pistol

The Shock Pistol is a simple but deadly weapon, and a mainstay of the Fallen arsenal. Primarily utilized by the lower ranking members of a given Fallen crew, Shock Pistols discharge bolts of Arc energy.


Shock Rifle

Although based on the same Arc technology as other Fallen weaponry, this rifle has a distinct advantage: the projectiles it fires track unerringly to the target. The exact mechanism behind this is unclear, but the rifle seems to steer the slow-moving molten projectile down an artificial field line.


Shrapnel Launcher

The Shrapnel Launcher is a simple, effective, robust weapons system that the Fallen can build without risking vital resources. 
The weapon fires loose-forged canisters of explosives and shrapnel down electromagnetic rails embedded in the barrel. Captains favor this weapon for its intimidating presence. It deals Solar damage.


Wire Rifle

The Wire Rifle utilizes shock cores to charge thin wires of an exotic metal, converting them into Arc-infused molten shards with an extraordinary muzzle velocity.


Shock Dagger

The Shock Dagger is a deadly combination of stun gun and knife. Composed of a lightweight metal and powered by a small Arc charge, the Shock Dagger is capable of cutting through armor and delivering a staggering jolt of electricity. The Fallen use them for every purpose imaginable, from light metalwork to hand-to-hand combat.


Shock Blade

These full-length edged weapons gather Arc energy from a system of shock cores and charging caps in the hilt, converting the entire length of the blade into a plasma cutting torch.
Brutally efficient in the hands of a skilled Captain, Shock Blades are not ceremonial weapons built for show. Guardians would do well to respect the threat they present.


Shock Grenade

The Shock Grenade is a simple, effective Fallen weapon. The core of the device is a shock core encased in an induction motor. Once activated, an Arc charge builds in the core until it reaches critical mass, starting a chain reaction that ends with a devastating explosion.


Skiff

Slipping out of stealth only to offload a crew of Fallen, the Skiff is rarely seen. On the other hand, its rumbling, booming arrival is difficult to miss - as are the weapons it uses to support its troop deployments.


Pike

A Pike looks and sounds like rusted junk but moves like a shark. Lightning crackles in the engine, which can accelerate to fantastic speed. Twin guns mow down infantry. The Fallen deploy Pikes as high-speed harassers and patrol vehicles.


Walker

Fallen Walkers are mobile gun platforms deployed in offensive and defensive roles alike. Though their insect-like design gives them an eerie, almost lifelike quality, these heavily-armored monstrosities are purely robotic. Their advanced tracking systems can account for multiple targets as their forward repeaters and massive main gun sweep the battlefield for threats. Mine dispensers provide close defense against dismounted infantry, and an on-board Shank foundry produces armed repair drones.
Walkers are immediate and deadly threats, having ended the Light of countless Guardians. The Fallen do not hesitate to deploy them to provide overwatch for their salvage and extraction crews. Walkers are also commonly used as blocking forces to guard key Fallen assets. At the Battle of Twilight Gap, Walkers engaged in a thunderous artillery duel with the City's gun positions.
The collected wisdom of battle-hardened Guardians suggests Walkers can be beaten by focusing fire on the legs, overloading the Walker and rendering its armored core briefly vulnerable. When the Walker stumbles, Guardians should focus all available firepower on the exposed components beneath the neck plating. Some externally mounted weapons can also be disabled with precise fire.


Heavy Pike

The Heavy Pike is a Fallen combat and demolitions vehicle. Unlike the standard assault Pike, the weightier Heavy Pikes are equipped with high-caliber twin-nose cannons and dual expel ports to either side that launch explosive devices.
Heavy Pikes should be considered a clear and definite danger when encountered in the wilds. However, should a Guardian, or Guardians, find occasion to utilize the Heavy Pike to their own ends, such behavior is highly encouraged.


Web Mines

The Fallen have a variety of tricks up their many sleeves. The Web Mine is proximity or impact triggered snare device that releases a tangle of "heavy" arc energy, causing spatial disruption within its sphere of influence.
The Web Mine's triggering mechanism ejects the physical mine into the air where it detonates its "Web" field. The triggering mechanism and mine can both be destroyed with focused fire.


Scorch Cannon

Scorch Cannons are shoulder-mounted heavy impact weapons used by the Fallen for hull-puncturing  in ship-to-ship raiding parties.
The Scorch Cannon uses a compressed Solar "furnace" to focus and direct superheated rods of solar energy. Each burst is mapped to the Cannon's firing matrix, allowing the wielder to hold a fired rod's charge. Release of the firing actuator triggers detonation. The longer the actuator is held the greater the rod's explosive impact.


SIVA Charge
SIVA Charge
On occasion, in high-voltage fields, a clump of SIVA will glitch off the main swarm. Activated but without a directive, the unstable mass seethes. Touching it triggers a chain reaction with an explosive conclusion.


Shock Cannon
Shock Cannon
Aimed from the shoulder, the Arc spike in this Fallen Cannon can smash a Sparrow in a single shot. Once lodged, the spike can be charged for several seconds, to destructive effect.


Null Cannon
Null Cannon
Fallen Splicers have been busy playing with what they’ve looted from the Hive. A spike of Void energy binds to the heavy Cannon scaffold for a powerful charge-and-detonate missile.



Riksis, Devil Archon
"The Archons are the links between the Fallen and their Servitors. We break those links, we break the Fallen."
Archons are revered amongst the Fallen. It is unknown whether these high priests are the caretakers of the Prime Servitors, or simply vicious arbiters of the Primes' will.
Riksis collects the skulls of dead Guardians. Whether he keeps them as trophies or presents them as offerings to whatever Prime he serves, his threat is very real, and his death will bring great joy to a City in need of hope.


Simiks-3
"Its thirst for knowledge was left unquenched for so long, its death will almost be considered a tragedy."
Simiks-3 was born of Winter's Prime Servitor, rumored to have been destroyed long ago. From readings gathered during the battle, it appears Simiks-3 was uniquely equipped to process and store huge amounts of intel between itself and a chain of nearby Servitors.


Draksis, Winter Kell
"The architect of Winter's strategy. And he still shows his strength on the front line."
Draksis, Kell of the Wintership Simiks-fel, has been an elusive target for the Vanguards. After his countless raids on jumpship reclamation convoys, Cayde-6 personally upped the bounty on him. With confirmed sightings of the Kell in the Ishtar Sink, the time to strike is now. 
Defeating Draksis could throw Winter into chaos. With Simiks Prime allegedly already lost, the House leadership would be gutted - although proof of the Servitor's demise remains elusive.


Sepiks Prime
"I never believed a machine could know hatred."
Floating, emotionless arbiters of life and death, Servitors are quasi-religious automata defended by the Fallen with zealous ferocity. 
The exalted Servitor of the Fallen House of Devils, Sepiks Prime, has long been rumored to dwell deep within the bowels of the Cosmodrome. While the Kells are the political leaders of the Fallen, Servitors are said to be their gods - and the source of their life-sustaining ether. A Prime Servitor is a target worthy of even the greatest sacrifice. Those willing to accept such a challenge will have the eternal gratitude of a City desperate for relief.
Sepiks Prime relies on fanatical reinforcements and its own considerable tactical abilities - including a short-range teleport and a powerful directed energy weapon. Aim for the eye, and break contact if it turns your way.


Aksor, Archon Priest

A disciple of the Prime Servitor Kaliks, Aksor initiated brutal crusades against human settlements beyond the City and ravaged countless Awoken enclaves throughout the Reef. When the Queen waged her war against the Wolves, Aksor was taken alive and sealed into the infamous Prison of Elders.
Killing Aksor before he can join the ranks of the House of Winter weakens the Fallen, strengthens ties to the Reef, and brings the City one step closer to gaining a solid foothold along the Shattered Coast.


The Silent Fang

Commanded by the fearsome Drevis, Wolf Baroness, the Silent Fang are a unit of elite stealth warriors and assassins. Instrumental in Skolas' rise to kellship among the Wolves, the Silent Fang also menaced the Queen during the Reef War. It was Drevis and the Silent Fang who razed Amethyst, and then tricked the Queen's Armada at the Battle of Iris. Though the Silent Fang suffered a serious blow when Drevis was finally thrown in the Prison of Elders after the Siege of Pallas, they continued to threaten the Queen's forces until the war's end.


Paskin, King Baron
Hull of Crows
Prince Uldren: Look at it from the House of Kings' perspective. Their power is matched only by their cleverness. They rule the Devils from the shadows and came too close to toppling the City not once, but twice.  We don't know much about them, but we know this: the Kings want the Traveler.
So why would they give it all up just because some outsystem Wolf runs in calling himself Kell of Kells?
The answer is: they wouldn't.
Petra Venj: But what if Skolas could somehow prove to them that he's the prophesied leader? Some artifact, or trick?
Yasmin Eld: Perhaps a new power, even.
Prince Uldren: No. Short of the Traveler itself calling Skolas by name, the Kings would not just roll over for anyone, no matter what. They're too ambitious.
Petra Venj: You sound like you admire them.
Prince Uldren: Power cleverly deployed is always worth admiring.
Yasmin Eld: So why send the King Barons?


Yavek, Wolf Baron
"Serve him; he is Kell of Kells."
Yavek was a minor lieutenant of Skolas' during the Reef Wars who evaded capture after the Cybele Uprising. After Skolas returned to the House of Wolves, he named Yavek a Baron to reward his loyalty, and sent him to Earth to be his negotiator with the Houses of Kings and Devils.


Vekis, King Baron
Hull of Crows
Prince Uldren: Of the Kell of Kings, we know nothing. Wherever, whoever it is, it remains hidden, even when the so-called Kell of Kells comes to its borders. Instead, it sends just two Barons: Paskin and Vekis.
Yasmin Eld: What do we have on them?
Petra Venj: Should I issue bounties on them?
Prince Uldren: No, you do not see. Perhaps if we wait, Paskin and Vekis will do our work for us.
Yasmin Eld: You believe Paskin and Vekis are not ambassadors?
Prince Uldren: I am sure of it.
Shuro Chi: Be certain, my prince, that your assessment is free of personal bias.
Prince Uldren: What are you suggesting, Shuro?


Skolas: Captured

Variks keeps a ragged piece of armor in his pod. It's human tech, Golden Age. Shattered in some ancient battle, pre-Collapse, and left to drift. He found it and he brought it to his quarters so he could sit on it. It's nothing like a throne. Variks doesn't want a throne.
He sits on his ancient shrapnel, unmasked, and whittles at an amethyst with the dead edge of a shock dagger. Music plays (something ancient, pre-Whirlwind, beautiful). The ether in the air is rich and it fills him up with strength. Skolas has been captured, mad Skolas who would have ruined everything. Variks should be happy. He's not. With his little knife and his two arms and his stolen shining thing he feels like a Dreg. He feels ashamed.
He betrayed Skolas twice. At Cybele, and again, now. He will betray Skolas' dream ten times more. Variks will never be strong like Skolas, big like Skolas, a leader like Skolas. Variks will work for the Queen, oversee the Prisons, watch his fellow Fallen (they are Fallen, it's a good name now) fight and die as gladiators who want nothing except a chance to hurt Guardians. Even Skolas.
He tried to use the Vex, word has it. He tried to use their machines. Has that ever worked for anyone? Maybe one. Maybe a few: the Osiris cultists are Variks' favorite people. Maybe that's how you survive this alien star where dead gods slumber and dead heroes walk. You cozy up to powers you barely understand and make yourself useful, or at least inoffensive. You become a parasite, a scavenger, a servant.
That's dreg strength. That's the strength that keeps Variks alive. It's nothing to be ashamed of.


Skolas: Defeated

Skolas is dead. 
Variks sits carving at his piece of amethyst. His undocked arms are weaker, less precise, but it is a comfort to feel the crystal press hard into his palm. The knife slips. He cuts himself. "Ai," he says, and of course right then the door opens, Variks has no privacy, Variks wants no privacy, Variks lives to serve the Queen.
It's Petra Venj. She's masked against the ether air. "The Prince wants to speak," she says, and then, seeing him unmasked and bleeding, she chuckles. Petra depends on Variks for intelligence and Variks, frustrated with her insane risk-taking and bravado, sometimes gives her tips meant to get her killed. Petra has figured this out. Petra and Variks know each other's agendas and each other's strengths and to Variks that's as close as any two people can get. Petra is smart: she sends Guardians now, people who can die as much as they like.
"You slipped," she says.
Variks holds up the amethyst in his bleeding hand. It's a Reef gem. "I wound myself," he says, "to make this more beautiful."
She stares into the gem with a distant Awoken eye. What does she see? Variks knows she has visions and he knows those visions haunt her, drive her. The Awoken are twinned to powers that terrify Variks. He'd dock himself again before he'd let the Queen's witches near him, the witches who raised Petra.
The unfairness of it makes him want to roar. Why does everyone else have this patronage? Why do the Hive have gods and the Vex have sprawling time-bent minds and the Cabal have reinforcements? Why do the Awoken whisper to the stars and listen for the whisper back, the voices from the Jovians, the song in the dark? Why do the Guardians get the Great Machine's blessing, was it like that before the Whirlwind, were there Fallen heroes crowned in Ghosts who strode the battlefield fearless and full of Light? Why do they tell stories about reclaiming the lost glory of humanity, and no stories about the lost glory of Variks' people, the House of Judgment that once kept codes of dignity and law?
Why can't the Fallen have that strength? But no, that strength is not for them, not for Variks. Just this bleeding, sad pragmatism. Just dreg strength. Hanging on.
The alternative is Skolas' strength, fighting together, raging against extinction. Look where that's gotten the species. The House of Devils' Prime is dead. The House of Winter's leadership devastated. The poor Exiles trying to claw out some security against the Hive. In the last few years the Fallen have lost so much—and everything is escalating around them. There are gods and powers converging on this system, old machines waking up, old bones whispering flatteries. They need a new way.
"Put your mask on," Petra says. "The Prince gets sullen if he's kept waiting."
"Not like us," Variks says, oh so mild. The wound on his hand will heal. His work in the Prison of Elders, setting up trial by combat, building an audience and a relationship with the Reef's scavengers and armories, will bring him a little closer towards rebuilding the House of Judgment. Skolas' fury has guttered out. The Fallen may yet accept peaceful, lawful rule. They may yet survive. They'll hang on. "We're very patient, yes?"
Petra looks down on him with pity and contempt and a strange fondness.
He puts on his mask.


Taniks, the Scarred
“It is the lone wolf, once cornered, who has the worst bite.”
Taniks, the Scarred, a mercenary known for the theft of Aksor from the Prison of Elders and the murder of Hunter Vanguard Andal Brask, sells his services to any Fallen House willing to pay the right price. It is believed by the Fallen that he is undying, a living huntsman whose physical self is joined with a mix of technologies, each pilfered from legendary treasure troves. But treasure is not the only currency of value to Taniks. His true ambitions rest in the challenge of the feats in front of him, and the rewards simply allow him to exist free of any Kell’s rule.


Pilot Servitor
"Pilots once mapped the stars. Skolas turned them into weapons."
Pilot Servitors were not typically utilized as combatants in Fallen battle plans. Their purpose was manning the flight of various Fallen ships, from crew transports to massive war-barges.
During the Reef Wars, however, Skolas crafted brutal new tactics to inflict maximum destruction upon the Awoken, including suicide attacks led by Pilot Servitors.
With the wounds of the Reef Wars renewed by the House of Wolves' betrayal, the Queen no longer abides their presence in her Reef.


Kaliks Reborn
"This machine is no God... But given fervent worship even a shell can transcend."
Kit-bashed using parts and pieces of lesser Servitors, Kaliks Reborn is fueled by servants so loyal to the rule of the long-lost Kaliks Prime that they would sacrifice their own ether to the last fume.
Kaliks Reborn is seen by these devout prisoners  as the resurrection of  their Prime. With a Kaliks to serve, the Fallen may rally, the Wolves may gain new strength. Or worse, a new House may rise—a House blinded by faith and hungry to be seen as equal.


S.A.B.E.R.-2
“If the Devils ever gain control of Rasputin’s Warsats, we'd have Golden Age ordnance pointed at the Tower in minutes.”
Reports show this vastly modified Shank and its defense armaments are enough to force the Vanguard to strike, but it is the tech underneath its layers of armor, cobbled together from Cosmodrome debris and cannibalized Servitor parts that is most concerning. All intel points to modifications made specially by rising Archons to breach the Warmind's firewalls and seize control of its systems.


Aksis, Archon Prime

Aksis is the fruit of the Devil Splicers’ labor. A former Archon Priest, Aksis has submerged himself in SIVA’s apotheosis and emerged as Archon Prime. All that he was is gone: his dreams. His hopes. Replaced by agency. He has shed his gods and his Ether like skin, and in his uplifted state, waits in his Perfection Complex for offerings of SIVA from all Fallen.


Vosik, the Archpriest

As an Archpriest, Vosik is second-in-command of the Devil Splicers and will follow Aksis in ascending to godhood— someday. Vosik has been enhanced by SIVA, but lacks the total apotheosis of Aksis, Archon Prime. Vosik wields the technology to build and maintain a body for Aksis. Nothing more, nothing less.
In due time, Vosik will ascend. All his people will. And worlds will fall.


Kovik, Splicer Priest

Kovik's twisted science is believed to be responsible for the Devil Splicers' SIVA-fueled evolution. But his ambitions didn’t stop with the augmentation of Fallen from ether-starved pirates to half-machine demigods. Instead, the mad Priest’s research took a far more sinister turn as he sought to control and weaponize the more aggressive aspects of the Hive’s mysterious biology.
If Kovik’s experiments were allowed to succeed, or be furthered in his absence, there is no telling how dangerous the Devil Splicers could become


Sepiks Perfected

The Fallen House of Devils had a firm grip on the Cosmodrome until brave Guardians began to push them back, taking out their leaders and engaging the Devils’ crews at every turn. Despite continued success against Fallen leadership throughout the Cosmodrome, no victory delivered a more crushing blow to the Devils than the destruction of their God-Servitor, Sepiks Prime.
But Sepiks has been reborn— Augmented and Perfected through SIVA and set to usher in the conversion of the House of Devils from desperate scavengers to SIVA-powered soldiers. Through Sepiks and those like it, SIVA will change the world.



WANTED: 
Wolf Pack
"Wolf Pack" is our name for 'em. Skolas' entourage—the ones closest to him. We hurt any one of them, we hurt Skolas.
WANTED: Any and all high-ranking members of Skolas' inner circle, a.k.a. "The Wolf Pack"
Bounty: 100 Marks, Queen's Wrath.
Wanted for: Treachery and high treason against the Queen; sedition; war crimes; evading justice
Description:
  - Fallen Class: Vandals, Captains
  - Stealth camouflage
  - Weapon: Shrapnel Launcher 
Affiliations: Skolas
Bring proof of kill to PETRA VENJ, Vestian Outpost (5560 Amytis)


WANTED: Skolas, Kell of Kells
STATUS: Unknown, Unconfirmed; INTEL REQUIRED
The Maraid, Book VII, Chapter 10
Abstract:
The transmission was broadcasted on all Fallen frequencies. Lacking, at the time, the ability to crack Fallen encryptions, the Master of Crows could discern only that the Fallen Houses were all talking to each other. That was a thing that had never happened before.
Then the Techeuns looked Earthward—and saw the Fallen there becoming bolder. Tactics suggested they were planning a massive attack. We had no interplanetary arrays—no way to warn Earth. We thought we would be able to do nothing but watch.
But then the Wolves arrived from the Jovians. Their army was hundreds of thousands, perhaps millions strong: a dark wave that washed over the Reef, rushing toward the Earth. As soon as we saw them it was clear that if the Wolves reached Earth, the City would fall.
Seemingly oblivious to our existence, the bulk of the Wolf fleet stopped to regroup at Ceres. The Queen's decision was this: attack the House of Wolves, thereby saving Earth but revealing the Reef's presence to any and all enemies in the quadrant; or remain silent, preserving the Reef's invisibility but allowing the City to perish.
Her Harbingers ripped into Ceres, destroying the asteroid and killing Virixas, Kell of Wolves and more than half his House. The remaining Wolves scattered, burrowing deep into the Belt for cover. There, new claimants to the Kellship quickly arose: Irxis, Wolf Baroness; Parixas, the Howling; and Skolas, the Rabid.


WANTED: Skoriks, Archon-Slayer

HULL OF CROWS  &#8212; &gt; VESTIAN OUTPOST
VENTRIS CYPHER ROOT9
Nothing good, I'm afraid.
Frankly, I’m surprised at the amount of support Skolas has secured this time around. He was never this popular before his capture. The only dissenter among their ranks appears to be one named Skoriks, called Archon-Slayer. He earned that nickname in just the way you'd expect, though we're not yet sure of his motivation. The most recent report shows Skoriks fleeing the House of Wolves. He appears to be heading for Luna.
My recommendation: Enemies of enemies aren't always friends. Snip the loose string. Perhaps one of your new pet Guardians might handle it.
If you need anything else, you know where to find me. And if you don't—I'll find you.


WANTED: Grayor, Wolf Assassin
STATUS: Escaped from the Prison of Elders; AT LARGE
The Maraid, Book VIII, Chapter 3
Abstract:
With Skolas and Parixas still fighting, no one expected either to attack the Reef. So by the time Paladin Abra Zire arrived at Amethyst it was too late: the Silent Fang, led by Drevis herself had massacred almost everyone in the station, including Coven Leader Pinar Venj.
Paladin Zire gave chase, and followed the Fang to Iris, where, behind the glare of Iris' brightness, a Wolf ketch lay in wait. But the ketch was no match for Zire's smaller, faster ships, or her ferocity.
When the Battle of Iris was over, however, it was not Drevis at Zire's' feet. It was Parixas.
Grayor, another of Skolas' loyal vassals, had attacked Parixas' ketch at the same time that Drevis had attacked Amethyst. He, too, had lured Parixas to Iris, then the Silent Fang had used Iris' unusual brightness to disappear just as Zire and Parixas arrived in the system.


WANTED: Drevis, Wolf Baroness
STATUS: Escaped from the Prison of Elders; AT LARGE
The Maraid, Book VIII, Chapter 4
Abstract:
After a string of defeats—at Amethyst, at Hygiea, arguably at Iris—Prince Uldren's Crows finally made headway against the Wolves' encryption. They quickly discovered a seemingly unimportant piece of information: the House of Wolves had incorrectly calculated the eccentricity of the asteroid Bamberga.
So Paladin Imogen Rife chased Drevis, Wolf Baroness, directly into Bamberga's trajectory. Drevis' ketch was destroyed, and both she and her High Servitor, Kaliks-4, were captured.
It was the first decisive Reef victory since the Scatter. But on her way back to Vesta with her captives, Paladin Rife was attacked at Pallas.


WANTED: Pirsis, Pallas-Bane
STATUS: Escaped from the Prison of Elders; AT LARGE
The Maraid, Book VIII, Chapter 6
Abstract:
Weksis' attack may have been unsuccessful, but it inspired another, deadlier assault. This time Pirsis, the Bane of Pallas herself led another strike, blasting through the same Athens Hull breach that Weksis had weakened in his assault.
Pirsis' strike team managed to free Kaliks-4, but Paladin Imogen Rife cut them off outside Drevis' cell. Pirsis might have escaped, but she refused to retreat without Drevis. Paladin Rife destroyed Kaliks-4 to prevent the Wolves from recovering it, and eventually the Wolves were forced back—but not before Pirsis slew Paladin Rife with her own blade.
Finally, Commander Hallam Fen, Imogen Rife's prot&#233;g&#233;, was able to establish a line of communication with the rest of the Reef. Working with the Techeuns and the Crows, they created an enormous visual illusion of the Harbingers, making it seem as if the Queen had finally decided to cut her losses and destroy the asteroid. It worked—the false Harbingers so scared the Wolf fleet that they broke ranks. Then the combined forces of Commander Fen, Paladin Leona Bryl and Paladin Kamala Rior slammed, capturing Pirsis, Pallas-Bane and driving the rest of the Wolves off.
Hallam Fen brought Drevis to Vesta, years after Imogen Rife had set out to do so. As a reward for his service, the Queen bequeathed him Rife's place among the Seven Paladins.


WANTED: Kaliks-12
STATUS: Escaped from the Prison of Elders; AT LARGE
The Maraid, Book VIII, Chapter 8
Abstract:
In desperation, Skolas personally led an all-out assault on the military fortress of Cybele. Little did he know that the Queen knew of his plans, thanks to the word of Variks of the House of Judgment. No sooner had Skolas' ketches arrived at the asteroid than all four Armada Paladins—Abra Zire, Kamala Rior, Leona Bryl and Hallam Fen—caught him in a pincer movement. Kaliks-12, the High Servitor of Skriviks, the Sharp-Eyed, tried to escape, but Abra Zire chased it down.
Skolas' Cybele Uprising had failed. He, Skriviks, Kaliks-12 and the rest of his leaders were cast into the Queen's prison. The Reef Wars were effectively over.


WANTED: Veliniks, the Ravenous
STATUS: Escaped from the Prison of Elders; AT LARGE
The Maraid, Book VIII, Chapter 10
Abstract:
Though many Wolves knelt to the Queen, some refused to admit the war was over. A group of Wolves rallied under the banner of a new would-be Kell: Veliniks, called the Ravenous.
But before Veliniks could strike at the Reef, the Reef struck at him: Lieutenant Petra Venj, a Corsair who had served under Paladin Abra Zire during the Hildian Campaign, hunted down and captured Veliniks.


WANTED: Peekis, the Disavowed
STATUS: Escaped from the Prison of Elders; AT LARGE
The Maraid, Book VIII, Chapter 2
Abstract:
What Peekis' assault lacked in finesse it made up for in sheer numbers and desperation. Irxis' ketches were pinned against Eos, and the two sides engaged in the bloody, bitter battle known as the Eos Clash, which left Irxis dead and both fleets nearly decimated. In the aftermath, the Crows salvaged one Orbiks servitor, Mecher Orbiks-11, believed to be the last of its programming.
Though technically a victory for Skolas, the Eos Clash came at a terrible cost for him. He docked Peekis' arms and demoted him to Dreg as punishment for his recklessness.
After the Eos Clash, Skolas changed his strategy.


WANTED: Beltrik, the Veiled
STATUS: Escaped from the Prison of Elders; AT LARGE
The Maraid, Book VIII, Chapter 7
Abstract:
Finally, Beltrik, the Veiled left the Hildians and massed his fleet at Fortuna, to replenish his ketches' Ether from the organic compounds found on the asteroid's surface. His ships landed on Fortuna one at a time, the rest forming  a defensive screen around its surface. He believed that Paladin Zire would attack the screen and destroy her fleet against the shield wall.
But Abra Zire's fury over the Battle of False Tidings had chilled over the years into an icy, clever resolve. She separated her forces in two, and engaged Beltrik's veil with what he thought was her entire host. But in secret, Abra deployed her second fleet with a weapon the Reef had been working on since Bamberga: Carybdis, a gravity weapon strong enough to knock asteroids off course. Carybdis caught asteroid Tinette in its beam and flung it into Fortuna, destroying both and severely damaging Beltrik's fleet.  Beltrik was easily captured in the ensuing chaos, and brought swiftly to the Queen. The fight became known as the Fortuna Plummet, as are, on occasion, the remains of Fortuna and Tinette as well.
After the Fortuna Plummet, one of Prince Uldren's Crows returned with a message from a Fallen, by the name of Variks, of the House of Judgment.


WANTED: Mecher Orbiks-11
STATUS: Escaped from the Prison of Elders; AT LARGE
The Maraid, Book VIII, Chapter 1
Abstract:
After the Scatter, the frontrunner for the Kellship was Irxis, Wolf Baroness. While Skolas and Parixas scrambled over the Kaliks servitors, Irxis secured the command of the Orbiks servitors.
Their history is still unclear, but the Orbiks originate with either another Fallen house—perhaps one that the Wolves absorbed long ago—or a modification of the Kaliks servitors. Either way, the Orbiks servitors held permissions on Kaliks servitors, which allowed Irxis to wreak havoc among her rivals' forces at the start of the Reef Wars.


WANTED: Saviks, Queenbreaker
STATUS: Escaped from the Prison of Elders; AT LARGE
The Maraid, Book VIII, Chapter 9 
Abstract:
Variks of the House of Judgment declared Queen Mara Sov the new Kell of Wolves, and advised those captured at Cybele to serve her. The first among these to pledge their loyalty to the Queen was one called Saviks, who was given the honor of serving in the Queen's throne room, to the right of the Queen herself.
[See Book IX, Chapter 3, subsection "The Queenbreakers."]


WANTED: Weksis, the Meek
STATUS: Escaped from the Prison of Elders; AT LARGE
The Maraid, Book VIII, Chapter 5
Abstract:
Under Skolas' vassal Pirsis, called Pallas-Bane, the Wolves amassed the largest Wolf fleet that had been seen since the Scatter. The Queen could not use her Harbingers against them—if she did, Imogen Rife and her fleet and all the people of Pallas would have been killed as well.
For years the siege endured. At first, neither side dared to attack the other: on Pallas, Paladin Rife knew that Pirsis had the firepower to destroy the asteroid. Above Pallas, Pirsis held back, hoping to rescue Drevis and Kaliks-4 and the other Wolves that Paladin Rife had captured at the Battle of Bamberga's Wrath. The Queen sought to diffuse the siege by sending Armada Paladins Abra Zire and Kamala Rior into the Hildian Asteroids, where Skolas was rumored to be hiding, but with the help of his tactician Beltrik, the Veiled, Skolas thwarted them.
The stalemate over Pallas was broken by, of all beings, a dreg. Ironically dubbed Weksis the Meek, the dreg led dozens of followers in an unsanctioned attack on Pallas. They managed to blast a hole in the Athens Hull, but were stopped soon after by Commander Hallam Fen. Weksis and the surviving followers were imprisoned alongside those they had come to save.


WANTED: Wolf Scavenger
These dregs are often the Wolves' front lines—scoping out new territory, scavenging materials, killing anything they come across.
WANTED: Any and all "Wolf Scavengers"
Bounty: 100 Marks, Queen's Wrath
Wanted for: Treachery and high treason against the Queen; evading justice
Description:
  - Fallen Class: Dregs
  - Weapon: Shrapnel Launcher
Affiliations: Skolas, Beltrik
Bring proof of kill to PETRA VENJ, Vestian Outpost (5560 Amytis)


WANTED: Twisted Claw
Gangs like the Twisted Claw are where the Fallen put Vandals who are too independent to take orders, but too talented to simply dock. So long as they bring intel and a cut of the profits back to the Kell, the Twisted Claw can do whatever they want.
WANTED: Any and all members of the Twisted Claw.
Bounty: 100 Marks, Queen's Wrath; first claim to spoils
Wanted for: War crimes; pillage; theft; evading justice
Description:
  - Fallen Class: Vandals, Captains
  - Weapon: Shrapnel Launcher
Affiliations: Skolas
Bring proof of kill  to PETRA VENJ, Vestian Outpost (5560 Amytis)


WANTED: High Servitor
Honestly, we don't understand their sentience, but they're of high value to the Fallen. Treat them as strategic infrastructure that needs scrapping.
WANTED: Any and all High Servitors of the House of Wolves
SHOOT TO KILL OR DISMANTLE
Bounty: 100 Marks, Queen's Wrath
Affiliations: Skolas, Kaliks Servitors, Orbiks Servitors
Bring proof of kill to PETRA VENJ, Vestian Outpost (5560 Amytis)


WANTED: Queenbreaker Vandal
Every sordid Wolf that skulked out of the Reef alive will become a trophy—a testament to the Queen's Wrath. Her Grace will see justice done.
WANTED: Any and all traitorous Wolf Vandals known as Queenbreakers.
Bounty: 100 Marks, Queen's Wrath; first claim to spoils
Wanted for: Treachery and high treason against the Queen of the Reef
Description:
  - Weapon: Wire Rifle
Affiliations: Skolas, Saviks
Bring proof of kill to PETRA VENJ, Vestian Outpost (5560 Amytis)


WANTED: Howling Raider
Got wind of a Fallen gang calling themselves the Howling Raiders. They seem a bit too interested in the Ishtar libraries, you ask me.
WANTED: Any and all members of the Howling Raiders.
Bounty: 100 Marks, Queen's Wrath
Wanted for: War crimes; pillage; theft; evading justice
Last Seen: Ishtar Collective, Venus
Description:
  - Fallen Class: Vandal
Affiliations: Skolas
Bring proof of kill to PETRA VENJ, Vestian Outpost (5560 Amytis)


WANTED: Repeater Shank
Shank-hunting is like pulling weeds. No sport in it—it just needs doing.
WANTED: Repeater-equipped Wolf Shank
SHOOT TO KILL OR DISMANTLE
Bounty: 100 Marks, Queen's Wrath
Affiliations: Skolas, Kaliks Servitors, Orbiks Servitors
Bring proof of kill to PETRA VENJ, Vestian Outpost (5560 Amytis)


WANTED: Ether Runner
The Ether Runners are the Servitors are in charge of Ether resupplies. Take out one, you put the hurt on multiple Fallen crews.
WANTED: Any and all Ether Runner Servitors of the House of Wolves
SHOOT TO KILL OR DISMANTLE
Bounty: 100 Marks, Queen's Wrath
Affiliations: Skolas, Kaliks servitors, Orbiks servitors
Bring proof of kill to PETRA VENJ, Vestian Outpost (5560 Amytis)


WANTED: Wolves' Guard
The Guards are handpicked from birth, stuffed full of Ether to make them strong and brainwashing to make them unthinkingly loyal to the Kell.
WANTED: Any and all members of the House of Wolves known as the Wolves' Guard.
Bounty: 100 Marks, Queen's Wrath
Wanted for: Treachery and high treason against the Queen; sedition; war crimes; evading justice
Description:
  - Fallen Class: Captains
  - Weapon: Scorch Cannons
Affiliations: Skolas, Beltrik, Skriviks
Bring proof of kill to PETRA VENJ, Vestian Outpost (5560 Amytis)


WANTED: Silent Fang
Drevis's assassins are filthy, crafty things. Find them before they find you, or you'll never see 'em coming.
WANTED: Any and all members of the House of Wolves identified as the Silent Fang.
Bounty: 100 Marks, Queen's Wrath
Wanted for: Treachery and high treason against the Queen; terrorist activities (to wit: the Raze of Amethyst); war crimes (to wit: Battle of Iris); evading justice
Description:
  - Stealth camouflage
  - Weapon: Shrapnel Launcher
  - Fallen Class: Captains
Affiliations: Skolas, Drevis
Bring proof of kill to PETRA VENJ, Vestian Outpost (5560 Amytis)


WANTED: Wolf Enforcer
Kells tend to have a short half-life. When things get contentious, would-be Kells lean on their Enforcers to make sure the rank and file are serving the right side of a fight.
WANTED: Any and all traitorous Wolf Captains known as Wolf Enforcers
Bounty: 100 Marks, Queen's Wrath
Wanted for: Treachery and high treason against the Queen of the Reef; sedition; war crimes;
Description:
  - Weapon: Wire Rifle
Affiliations: Skolas, Saviks
Bring proof of kill to PETRA VENJ, Vestian Outpost (5560 Amytis)


WANTED: Queenbreaker Captain
They wear the name "Queenbreaker" like a badge of honor; but we'll show them that it's a stain, a target—an indelible mark for death.
WANTED: Any and all traitorous Wolf Captains known as Queenbreakers. 
Bounty: 100 Marks, Queen's Wrath
Wanted for: Treachery and high treason against the Queen of the Reef
Description:
  - Weapon: Shock Blade
Affiliations: Skolas, Saviks
Bring proof of kill to PETRA VENJ, Vestian Outpost (5560 Amytis)


WANTED: Tracer Shank
Seems like the Fallen have an endless supply of these floating death-machines. No matter. Anything they spit out, we'll toss right back.
WANTED: Wolves long-range Tracer Shank
SHOOT TO KILL OR DISMANTLE
Bounty: 100 Marks, Queen's Wrath
Affiliations: Skolas, Kaliks servitors, Orbiks servitors
Bring proof of kill to PETRA VENJ, Vestian Outpost (5560 Amytis)



The Hive
"There are nightmares rising from the shadows, and they hunger for our dying hope."
The Hive are an ancient, festering evil. Their antipathy to the Light transcends hatred. To the Hive, the eternal struggle between Light and Dark is not only a war, it is a crusade - all Light must be devoured so Darkness can reclaim the universe.


Thrall
"The shadows have claws."
Feral and fearless, Thrall are a plague upon the battlefield. 
Their swarming, twisted frames are driven by unfettered rage. Of all the terrors born of the Hive's vile will, they are the basest.


Acolyte
"Belief is a powerful weapon."
It would be a mistake to view the Hive's Acolytes as foot soldiers, because the Hive is not merely an army, it is a dark force rising. It is belief and horror, and its Acolytes are its instruments, hungry to commit the atrocities that will drive their own ascension.


Knight
"It put up a hand and swallowed the rocket with a wall of shadow."
A roaring, striding fortress, the Knight is the Hive's foremost and most zealous defender. Centuries of battle have toughened the bony protrusions on its body into an armor as hard as relic iron - a defense only strengthened by the Hive magic that Knights use to summon shields of burning force.


Ogre
"Its gaze shattered the rock, and then it smashed the rock to powder."
Charged with Hive sorcery, Ogres are abominations of flesh and rage, unleashed from the deepest Hive tunnels as engines of destruction. Apocryphal lore suggests that Ogres undergo terrible transformations as they grow - agonizing rituals that gift them with might and cunning.


Wizard
"The only word for what we saw is sorcery."
The Wizard is the scalpel with which the Hive vivisect the universe. A nightmare of rag and bone, the Wizard conceals herself within darkness and fire, dissecting and experimenting on anything that falls into her clutches.


The Hidden Swarm
"Mind the cracks and crevices of the Moon. There is an army in their shadows."
Boiling from the wounded surface of the Moon, the Hidden Swarm is the Hive's outermost line of defense - a numberless legion that repels intruders before they breach the temples and shrines of the vast Hive fortress.


Spawn of Crota
"Crota's spawn will snuff out the worlds of Light, and Oryx's coming shall be unfettered."
The heralds of a dark future, led by the champion of a long-forgotten king. Crota and his legions once banished us from our own Moon. Now we fear they are rising again to claim Earth.


Blood of Oryx
"They are the shadow of an unknown master, harbingers of a power beyond anything we've faced."
Research into the cyphers and runes of the Hive leads the Cryptarchs to believe the Hive sects all serve one great master. The Blood of Oryx are feared to be the direct servants of this dark lord. The name Oryx appears too many times in Hive rituals to be ignored.


Hive Champions

Tell the Inner Circle yes, and no.  My fireteam's initial survey has uncovered no real differences between the Hive we've encountered on Earth and Luna and the Hive on the Dreadnaught.  Same coloration, same bad breath, same sharp claws.
I've probably slain thousands of old Oryx's brood... I know how they operate.  How they move.
The Hive on the Dreadnaught feel different.  I've caught a few Thrall just looking at me, staring.  Like they're working something out.  We took on a coven of Wizards, and the whole time they were singing this little song.  Like fighting us was a formal ritual, a ceremony they had to complete.
As a Guardian, you master your fear.  You have to.  Out here, past the Reef, surrounded by worms and decay... I'm afraid again.  These things feel old, here.  Like they belong.  Like we're the aliens.  Like we're prey.


Ghost Fragment: Hive

We were overwhelmed. I could not save mine, so I have hidden myself where I might be found by the others, if they even survive. There is most likely no possibility of my return to the City. I prepare here in summary the knowledge so painfully won by my Guardian and our fireteam.
The Moon has been geoengineered into an impregnable fortress, designed to support a vast number of - creatures - if any mind could be evil enough to create them. Are they alive? They move, they shriek, they fall upon us in ravenous waves. But I see death, decay, and corruption, not life. We discovered, to our sorrow, one massive set of gates. There are likely more. 
We met a towering monster, wielding a sword of utter darkness. The Light only made it hungry. We tried to fight, and we fell. Too many times to remember. 
We were all brave, I assure you. May the Light find Guardians capable of facing this monstrosity, or I fear the Moon may be lost to us forever.


Ghost Fragment: Hive 2

At the doors to the Temple he fell for the last time. He fell, and I could not reach him.
My own Light flickers.
They took me down into the dark, past tiers of massed Hive, more than we believed could exist. Past grisly nurseries hung with pupae. Past writhing worms that they swallow whole. I saw the armaments of war.
I am weak, so weak.
They have clamped me to this spire while a black foulness eats my Light. The Wizard comes now and then to probe with her scaly claws into my systems, to inquire about my making, the City, what I have seen. I erase and dump as quickly as I can - they will learn little from me - but I am studying them, I know - pain.
Always pain.
I have seen chasms beneath the surface, falling away to green nothingness. I have seen black seeders prepared for invasion.
Their strength is not their own. They draw from another force, something that corrupts, that distorts, that eats and will not be satisfied.
The Wizard is near. I feel her presence as a rip and a knot in the world. She tells me things that I immediately forget. I am too small to hold the vastness of them, or the terror.
I am fading. I have no more that it can take.
With my last light I say to the City: War comes again from the Moon. This time they want Earth. Prepare.


Ghost Fragment: Hive 3
"The nightmares will crawl across this world and the machines of old will rest silent as they witness the final Light of this seemingly eternal dusk."
Ikora: And this Omnigul is here? On Earth?
Eris: I can feel it.
Ikora: Why?
Eris: She’s left the Hellmouth. Her inner chambers are active. More so than I have seen. But she is no longer in the shadows.
Ikora: No, not—I don't question your belief. I’m asking why she is here. Why Earth? Please, try to be clear. There is no time for cryptic half-answers and almost-truths.
Eris: Heh.
Ikora: She still laughs.
Eris: It seems I have become more like the Speaker—
Ikora: Secrets have their places. Here, now, is not that place. Omnigul. Tell me what you’ve learned. Tell me how we stop her.
Eris: There may be no stopping what comes. The Hive in Old Russia—in that dead land—their assault on the Cosmodrome is no coincidence. They move against the Light with purpose. Always with purpose.
Ikora: The Warmind?
Eris: Rasputin. Yes. The last fail safe against the night.
Ikora: He’s still yet to heed our calls—
Eris: I’m aware.
Ikora: —but seems just.
Eris: Just is enough. Just can save us all.
Ikora: And the Hive?
Eris: They will tear into its eyes—or worse.
Ikora: Worse?
Eris: The dust and bone and horror of their existence is simply who—what they are. But it does not negate their ageless intelligence.
Ikora: They do not seek to destroy Rasputin.
Eris: I don’t know. Destroying Rasputin would cost us a treasure beyond belief. But, such fury twisted to the Hive’s ends?
Ikora: We would fall.
Eris: All would fall.
Ikora: The Omnigul is here for Rasputin.
Eris: She is here to pave the way.
Ikora: For Crota?
Eris: That could just be the beginning. He's not their only god.
Ikora: As I am learning. I will make the others listen.
Eris: It may be too late.
Ikora: Then you need a new army.
Eris: I’ve made that mistake before.
Ikora: You saved us all. Your sacrifice—
Eris: I am still here. My sacrifice was—
Ikora: Enough.
Eris: And I should ask new heroes to fall... as they did?
Ikora: It is why we were reborn in the Light.
Eris: My Light is all but gone.
Ikora: Cherish what remains, but know that you have done enough. Your time in the shadows... I can't fathom—
Eris: My role among the Hidden is an honor.
Ikora: None would argue. But it's had its cost. Your place is to gather the understanding we need to wage these wars, but your own war is long done. Let those prepared to fight, fight.
Eris: And should they die?
Ikora: None who walk these Towers is afraid—and Rasputin must not fall.
Eris: Then Omnigul must be stopped.
Ikora: Two goals that appear to be one and the same.
Eris: Perhaps. So I am to stay?
Ikora: I will see to it.
Eris: Then let us hope we are strong enough to stand against what is upon us—and hope the others do not follow.


Ghost Fragment: Hive 4
Transcribed from a stolen copy of the journals of Toland, the Shattered (unverified by any crypto-archeologist)
If your Light is strong enough to hear across the soundless plains, you may have heard their screams.
What may seem like a void between their shrieks, holds, what I believe to be yet another clue to their origins. In one tone the Hive plea to their gods, but in the next, they whisper to another.
Perhaps it is here which holds the answer to their ultimate demise, or a bridge to their desires. In my studies, I still struggle to match the tones to their rune system. If only Crytparch Adonna were still with us. No one has yet to match her adept.
Four sounds, oft repeated, but only four. Though I am on the trail of a fifth, faintly heard from the buzz that once spilled from the Shrine—
Eir.
Ur.
Xol.
Yul.
It is in these sounds that I fear yet another Hive secret hides. Perhaps beyond their gods, perhaps in accord with them. Perhaps these are just Hive translations of worlds we call another name, but I believe above all things they call to some kind of being. Beings that once lived, or still live somewhere buried amongst us. Beings the Hive perhaps owe their very existence to.
I am hoping the Warminds may hold further answers—that they can see into worlds where we can only see what lies upon them. The treasure of knowledge they promise still remains the most sought after of any Guardian. Whoever can find a way past their firewalls of ancient arts, and make them the allies they once were, could spare us further atrocities. And though Rasputin offers some promise, one can only hope its silence is self-defense, that it seeks only to preserve itself. We have to prove to it that we are on its side, but I am starting to doubt that is absolutely true. That maybe the Hive or the Darkness itself now have a grasp on his systems.
But then again, I am an old man with many fears, and in those fears , often called madness, I will continue to dwell.



Shredder

The Shredder, like so much Hive technology, appears to be an arcane joining of uncharted sciences that verge on magic. It has no discernable mechanism. But in the hands of a Hive warrior, it generates bolts of Void fire.


Boomer

This devastating Arc weapon is said to contain a shard of some dead celestial body. Lobbing bolts of rotting starfire, it is both a ruinous tactical weapon and an instrument of siege.


Cleaver

Carved of fossilized bone and hell-forged metal, dulled by centuries of slaughter and execution, the Cleaver is the terrible weapon of a Hive Knight. Despite their mass, they swing easily, as if the sword were aware of its action and eager to tear into the Light.


Tomb Ship

Tomb Ships are the Hive equivalent of troop carriers, though the term can only be applied loosely. They glide from point to point through ominous portals, wounds cut into the flesh of space.


Shrieker

These ever-watchful sentinels are believed, in some circles, to serve as the eyes of the Hive's innermost covens, allowing powerful Wizards and Knights to watch over their domains. Others believe Shriekers are nothing more than weapons meant to guard Hive ritual sites.
There is nothing living to the Shrieker, but neither are they mechanical constructs in a classical sense. They seem to be dead mass, animated by the arcane will of the Hive. When a Shrieker is broken, its Void charge rips free of the hull to seek vengeance.


Dreadnaught

HALT ALL TRAFFIC. STAND BY FOR SNAP.
MESSAGE TO FOLLOW.
PUBLIC KEY 110 341 AXA SOVEREIGN
FROM:  PETRA VENJ
TO: ALL REEF ASSETS [ROC CLEARANCE]
SUBJECT: HIVE WARSHIP CONTACT
MESSAGE IS:
1. Massive Hive warship sighted in circum-Saturn space [contact via DSR TF 3.2]. Target designated DREADNAUGHT.
1a. Dreadnaught maneuvering unpredictably. Orbital parameters and stationkeeping behavior not compatible with standard dynamics.
1b. ESM analysis detects multiple Hive vessels in escort.
2. Target emitting sterile neutrinos, phaeton spectra, and mass growl. Major radiation events include gravity waves and axion scatter. Techeun conclusion: target possesses radical ontomorphic capabilities [see BANE DREAMER]
2a. Under no circumstances attempt teleonomic analysis of Dreadnaught emission spectra. ***This is a BRAINSTAIN ALERT.***
3. Dreadnaught radiation events correlate with eversive breach events across solar system. Dreadnaught is likely motive force behind breach events.
3b. Backscatter analysis and Techeun insight suggest Dreadnaught hosts complex internal environment. Small party boarding action may remain viable if noopathic hazards can be managed.
4. TF 3.2 shadowing Cabal fleet elements. Cabal attack on Dreadnaught likely but not imminent.
5. All Reef assets assume war posture. Stand by for fragment orders.
MESSAGE ENDS
STOP STOP STOP



Kranox, The Graven
"Their keeper of secrets."
Kranox, the Graven is said to be the Keeper of the Worlds' Grave, a vast repository chronicling the Hive's history of interstellar conquests. Every world they have devoured, every life they have eradicated, every enemy they've faced. 
Defeating Kranox and cracking the secrets of the Worlds' Grave could provide the City with the keys to unraveling the Hive's true goals and their ultimate plans for Earth.


Swarm Princes
"The royalty of nightmare."
The Swarm Princes are terrible legends. It was their will that forged the Sword of Crota, a weapon meant to ravage worlds - the Great Render of Light, the Darkest Edge. They have waited in the shadows of the Hellmouth for their master's return, guarding the Sword and sating its ravenous hunger with the Light of Guardians who have dared to challenge them.


Telthor, Unborn
"If you see an Ogre, you know you're close to something the Hive values."
The Unborn are those Ogres who have yet to be given the honor of a summoning. Brute enforcers with a singular hunger for destruction, the Unborn serve the will of their greater Hive overlords. Those Ogres that display loyalty and strength will be called for an agonizing ritual that earns them the title "Reborn."
Telthor, protector of the Chamber of Night, is kept hungry and chained, awaiting the moment when an interloper breaks open the Chamber and threatens the Hive's hateful ambitions.


Sardok, Eye of Oryx
"Until the Darkness reigns, the Eyes must never close."
There are whispers of shrines to the fabled Oryx peppered across the entire system. Stories tell of walking nightmares, protectors of bone and fury, towering over these prized chambers.


Mormu, Xol Spawn
"How many horrors have they summoned?"
Behind every dark ritual lurks a coven of Wizards, the architects of the Hive's unspeakable designs. Mormu, born of the blood and flesh of Xol, is said to conduct terrible rituals upon the Hive's Ogres.


Phogoth, the Untamed
"The summoning tempers their rage...but first that rage must be stoked."
Phogoth's presence in the Summoning Pits reveals yet another of the Hive's depraved designs - a ritual of rebirth, where an Ogre's ravenous hunger and violence is honed and given purpose.


Blades of Crota
"They are the heralds of our destroyer. Ushers of this coming storm."
Vell: They’re more than Knights.
Eriana-3: They look like Knights.
Vell: That’s like calling you a tin can.
Eriana-3: Excuse me?
Vell: I’m saying calling them Knights is an understatement.
Omar: What are they then?
Toland: World carvers. 
Omar: Meaning?
Toland: Those swords are neither bone nor steel. There’s a dark purpose to their edge.
Eriana-3: Darker than death?
Toland: Death is peace compared to the shadows.
Omar: Those Blades cut down more Guardians than I can count.
Vell: Hundreds.
Eriana-3: Thousands. The Vanguard should’ve known better.
Toland: I tried to warn them.
Omar: But we’re prepared?
Vell: I am.
Omar: Not exactly the question.
Eris: I have a feeling Light won’t be enough.
Eriana-3: Then we’ll take their swords from their ashes, and cut them down one-by-one,  Blade-by-Blade.
Eris: You would wield a weapon of the night?
Eriana-3: For her—them? I will butcher any who stand in my way with even the darkest blade.
Eris: Pray it doesn’t come to that.
Vell: Heh. To cleave our enemies with their own tools of destruction? We should be so lucky.
Omar: You’ve got a strange view on luck.
Toland: When you’ve got your hand around the hilt and their ash under your boot,  you might change your tune, Hunter.


Sardon, Fist of Crota
"One sword stands tallest among them, leading the charge against us all."
Vell: So this Sardon is one of these Swarm Princes?
Toland: In a stretch of the concept, sure. He is their lord and master. They are his generals.
Vell: Sounds like my kind of fight.
Omar: What isn't?
Vell: Eris and Eriana said the Blades rose first and slaughtered our brothers and sisters. If the one who leads their charge is within reach, I mean to end him—to end them all.
Eris: We are here for Crota.
Toland: I'm afraid each disciple is Crota.
Vell: Then it must be done. Know that I have faith in your Light, as I do in my own.
Eris: This isn’t about faith.
Eriana-3: It’s about vengeance.
Vell: It’s about the only thing that matters—victory. It’s about doing what we must to end this terror.
Eris: We will face them all, together. We have no time to fight individual battles.
Toland: I have no doubt the Fist will welcome your challenge, Titan. When we face him, you will lead the charge. Come, Crota's Temple lies ahead. If we can breach it, I'm sure another fight  awaits.


Might of Crota
"It is a mountain of rage, summoned to leave only destruction in its path."
Toland: When a god's Will is met with force, its Might will be unleashed in the form of those raging beasts we call the ogre—monsters bred of pain, tormented by the Light,  nothing but hatred for all who bring its suffering forth.
Eris: And how do you know this?
Toland: It was told to me.
Eris: By the Speaker?
Toland: By the Darkness itself.


Hand of Crota
"It crawls from the shadows to claim our Light in the name of Crota."
Sai: Can you track the others?
Eriana-3: No. There is too much interference. The shroud is too thick here. Ghost?
Ghost: &lt;chhk&gt; Yes. &lt;chhk&gt;
Eriana-3: We in bad shape?
Ghost: &lt;chhk&gt; Could be better. &lt;chhk&gt;
Eriana-3: Any charge?
Ghost: No. Something is siphoning the Light. &lt;chhk&gt; I’m getting weaker by the second. &lt;chhk&gt;
Eriana-3: And Sai’s Ghost? Same?
Ghost: Faint charge detected &lt;chhk&gt; but it’s fading. Its shell is damaged beyond repair. &lt;chhk&gt; No comms. No transmat. &lt;chhk&gt; Even if there were a signal—
Eriana-3: Use whatever juice you’ve got and relay this transmission to the others.
Ghost: They won't receive it. &lt;chhk&gt;
Eriana-3: Not the point.
Eriana-3: This is Eriana-3 of the Praxic Warlocks. Marked by the Cormorant Seal. I am alongside the Hunter Sai Mota. Our Light is nearly gone. The ash of untold Hive covers the ground in our wake.
Unknown: [inaudible scream]
Sai: Omnigul—
Eriana-3: From what Toland has described we are on the path of Crota's dreaded Hand.
Sai: The Hand is falling back toward the screams beyond these tunnels.
Eriana-3: Screw it. You ready?
Sai: My knives are eager for another dance.
Eriana-3: You speak little, Sai Mota, but always say the right things.


Eyes of Crota
"The Eyes watch us all, gathering our secrets in hopes of ending the Light."
Eris: Something is watching us. I can feel it.
Omar: I hate when you say that.
Toland: Crota has many Eyes. Every god does.
Eris: We have to go.
Omar: If they know our every move, what chance do we have?
Toland: With their great age comes even greater wisdom. I have no doubt the Hive led us here with intent.
Omar: What are you saying?
Toland: For these disciples, we offer the greatest sacrifice.
Eris: What does that mean?
Toland: Do you feel your Light fading? They are offering it to Crota. Us coming here, we are the ones waking him.
Omar: He’s mad.
Toland: Perhaps.
Eris: Why do you hold these secrets like weapons, to damn us all?
Toland: Because they are weapons. And we are going to use them to show the Hive they are not the only ones who breed fear.
Eris: How?
Toland: You’re hunters—hunt. Find the Eyes that are upon us.
Omar: Then?
Toland: We blind Crota and use what's left of your dying Light to lead us to where these monsters seek to conjure their master.


Heart of Crota
“It’s not the first and surely is not the last. But until the last Heart stops, their hate will spread endlessly across the black."
Eris: Record this.
The Heart of Crota.
It is her blood that feeds their fury.
I thought Omar dead until I heard his screams. I followed them down, to the darkest night of the caverns below. What I saw—I witnessed all we fear—the villainy of the Hive on full display.
Among a sea of cocoons, and surrounded by thousands more freshly spawned hordes, the Heart held Omar’s broken body in a vice of bone and pain. She was peeling the Light from his body. How? I can’t imagine, and I have tried. Tendrils of luminance tore away like flesh.
With every strand Omar’s scream cut the dark and was met with a chittering chorus from the unborn. I can’t say if they were feeding off the Light itself, or the pain, but my guess is both—somehow, both.
The Heart, though I can’t believe she actually has one, seemed to be conducting some nightmare orchestra, nurturing Crota’s children, with the echoes of Agah’s Light.
The Hive must end for all they had done, and some day, by my hand or another’s, the Heart will meet with an end fitting of the pain she, herself, has dealt.


Urzok, the Hated
"By pleasing their gods, the Hive carve scars on the fabric of our realm."
Among the lesser Hive, there is no higher honor than that of the Hated.
Not all can be hallowed, fewer still gods, but all can do their part to smite the Light. The Hated, though, holds a unique place among the Hive. It is a singular position. Only ever one. And the emerald marrow on its blade is not from combat, but the ritualistic execution of those the Wizards have deemed Forsaken.


Omnigul, Will of Crota
"That shriek, that wicked laugh. If you listen closely, you can hear power in its song.”
Eris: Those screams.
Omar: And I was just starting to tune them out.
Toland: It has been told that with these screams another spawn is awakened, birthed in the name of the god it holds.
Sai: Crota.
Toland: I am afraid so. They call this one Omnigul, mother of the spawn.
Sai: How do you—? I'd rather not know.
Toland: Commands, echoed through the dark, fetid caverns—orders carried out with grinding stone and squeaking claw, skittering thrall and blade against bone.
Omar: Well, now he's on a roll.
Eriana-3: I hear them, even when I don't. I will tear this Omnigul's throat out.
Toland: If you were to do so, our work here would be done. Without a Will to raise its army and herald its ascendance, there is no Crota to fear, at least here and now.
Eris: Then we follow the screams.


The Forsaken
"Conjured with but one purpose... to die."
How does one call through the Darkness? Through the void of the eternal night sky? Through the pathways  that link the Hive to their ancient, rotting deities? With suffering.
The Forsaken are conjured and birthed through ritual, meant to serve as worship to gods of a higher plane of misery. To perform a ritual of sacrifice is to tempt a god's hunger. What then, if a being of the Light were to taint such a ritual? Would the Hive be punished? Would their gods grow angry?


Ir Y&#251;t, the Deathsinger

Eriana! Let's sing. Sing with me. No, no, you rattling machine, not yet, it's too soon: we don't know the words.
We'll learn the song down there. We can learn it from Her. She comes up from the deep dark places where the greater Hive await to sing it to us, and here's a puzzle for you—
The song is death. To hear it is to die. To know the words is mortal. Oh, good point, Eriana, death is just a word, isn't it? A catch-all term for the failure to go on, nothing spiritual, nothing with its own quiddity. We all died once, and it did not prove insurmountable.
But what if what if what if, shhh listen, what if death were reified, described in its totality, made autonomous and universal, separate from any context or condition? What if She could invoke the ending of anything?
How, then, would She know the song, and sing it, without Herself dying?
Perhaps they know a way to make themselves part of the song, part of something vast and burning that rots and peels into ash but never ever ends. Perhaps She has engineered this for Him, and pinned His power up against the quiddity of death itself.
I am so terribly curious to know.


Crota, Son of Oryx
My Thoughts on Recent Events
He hides in the dark below: the monster of Luna, the titanic god-Knight who walked the regolith beneath a sky of green fire and butchered the greatest army of Guardians ever assembled. We abandoned the Moon rather than face him.
Whispered lore and fragmentary theories suggest that Crota represents a distinct class of Hive entities, not resident in our material world. My latest synthesis of this scattered esoterica suggests that Crota's 'home' is a universe created or remade by his power and occupied by Hive organisms of immense age. Any Guardian formidable enough to return with information on this dark reality might help us understand the Hive's goals for our own world—and, more pressingly, such an expedition might provide the key to Crota's defeat.
The epithet Son of Oryx is an ambiguous translation, often disputed. At this time, no direct action by Hive entities of more expansive power has ever been observed. Those who trade in Hive lore bicker over the exact positioning of Crota—is his world the apex of Hive power, or is it the youngest and most accessible of a string of netherworlds, each host to a more terrible Hive archentity?
The nature and possible interrelationship of the Vex gate system with Hive netherworlds remains unexplored.
Ikora


Wretched Knight
"They who walk as bone, would walk upon your bones."
As the Worm Keepers wrestled for control of the disparate broods within the Prison of Elders it was the Wretched Knights they turned to as their enforcers.
The Worm Keepers solidified their hold over the Wretched Knights by promising them the spoils of the Light. After growing weary of the Awoken, the newly arrived Guardians have finally secured their loyalty.


Urrox, Flame Prince
"The ground upon which you walk shall burn. YOU shall burn."
Prince to none, Urrox kept watch over a long-forgotten brood long ago. With the remnants of that spawn at his side, Urrox calls out to all wielders of the Light— to burn away all they are until only the Darkness remains.


Gulrot, Unclean
"It is the physical form of sickness and rot; a walking disease. Cure it."
That the Worm Keepers held within the Prison of Elders would even attempt such a delicate metamorphosis so far removed from the full resources of their Summoning Pits speaks to either desperation or madness.
Challenge the Worm Keepers and cure the Prison of the hulking sickness they have birthed, or drown in the bile and mess of a festering abomination.


Oryx, The Taken King
Where is my son?
Where is Crota, your lord, your princely god, your godly prince?
Tell me no lies!
I feel his absence like a hole in my
Stomach.
Where once his tender tribute whetted burrowed mouths,
Now only hunger remains.
Hear me, O waning stars, O tattered rags of Sky —
I will stopper up this tearing gulf
With vengeance.
Dearest Eris, Crota's Bane (now we shall see how well you wear that title!),
It's not all bad.
Yes, the father of all your burdens comes to you with hate on his sword and hunger in his heart. But don't look at it that way. Did you not, when you lost your sight, gain another?
Sharpen your intentions. When life is strength and strength is death, what is death, if not hope?
You just have to reach out and take it.


Oryx: Rebuked
In World the stars never shone,
The worm never bred in our flesh,
We lived for a day
Our teeth were too short
We were hungry for things we could not eat
Hello again. It’s me. I’m sure you know my name.  Let me talk a while, let me talk, I do take a debased joy in speaking again to small human-form heads.
When Crota’s victory over our little blue world seemed certain (a moment of silence, now, for Wei Ning, whose directness I admired) it was Oryx who called His Child back into the nether world to plan final victory. It was to Oryx that the violence of His spawn was tithed.
Oryx is the wielder and the servant of a terrible truth. He has predicated Himself on it, He has pursued across thousands of cairn worlds His quest to embody it, and you have seen the force of that truth expended to create these Taken.
He is not a simple thing to kill. He wants to be isomorphic to conquest, to triumph, to killing and death. He is a syllogism, now, but in time He hopes to become an axiom.
This is His strength and His fatal weakness.
For if he ever falters in His performance, if the inflow of devastation ever falls behind His expenditure of ruin, He will be consumed. If He is ever outmatched, then by the terms of His own existence, He will cease.
It is to Oryx Himself, in the heart of the Dreadnaught that armors and encapsulates his throne-world, that you must make your last and surest argument.
Good luck! Do let me know if a vacancy opens.


Oryx: Defeated
Listen —
Death is the last part of living
and life is learning to die
The song is the same as the singing
The last truth commands me
to eat all the light in the sky
I will go on forever. I will understand.
Dwell a moment on the weight of what you’ve done. Contemplate the story you just ended. Will you ever do anything that screams down the millennia? Will you ever hammer your will on the universe until it rings and rings and rings? Oryx was an awesome power. Show reverence.
All right. Enough. Enough. A vacancy has opened, hasn’t it?
How interesting. How very interesting.
Do you ever pause, dear listener, to consider who benefits from all this heroism you commit? Do you ever look around you and feel the faintest chill? As if you are the tiny little ball bearing placed beneath a great mass, so that it might, if pushed, begin to roll?
You’re a god yourself, now. You’ve consecrated yourself. Emulate me. Use your power to learn.
There are worse things to practice being.


Echo of Oryx
Abase yourself, weapons and instruments
Submit yourself, shapes and gliders, automata all —
I am Oryx, Lord of Shapes, Carver of Tablets
Behold my performance of the Last True Shape
The final axiom
Witness the space that I define
I approach the asymptote.
I grow vast across topologies.
I am not simply connected.
Dearest Guardian,
I write to you from a place of high contempt. No no no, don’t be offended, don’t be so superficial — it’s in the architecture of these spaces. They look down on you.
I wander out here, in worlds cut by sharp Hive swords, and I send back these messages for you.
Of Oryx, that admirable monarch, I have only a little to say. Why? Because He is all in the action, fellow traveler, His philosophy is all on display. He has twinned himself so closely to the power He admires. He has become many-placed, many-formed, sending out emissaries of himself to ask after the truth.
In each act of His power Oryx seeks to incarnate the self-sustaining, immortal suzerainty that He worships. The power that He uses to wash his Taken clean and etch them into useful shapes.
LISTEN! LISTEN! Understand, you simpleton, it’s entirely obvious —
Oryx inhabits a world where power is truth. To win is to be noble, and to be real. When He departs from that world, out into the material universe, He is lessened.
The echoes of Oryx go forth to ask a question: are you the truth? And that means — well. You see, I’m sure.


Alak-Hul, the Darkblade

From a median point
Alak-Hul tossed back his head and defied me
Saying:
Oryx gave me no task
Therefore I must task myself
With Oryx's ending.
So I slew him,
And buried him close to me,
Rejoicing in the success of his great, secret task —
To be as the sword:
Keen, hungry, cyclical, ontological —
This was the task I gave to Alak-Hul,
O sharp-edged Darkblade,
O beloved foster son.


The Warpriest

Five hundred and eighty five times he paced the way
Under each circuit was a world
He took up the worlds, he placed them in his hand, he weighed them
From the Golden Amputation to the Gift Mast
The principle he put upon his brow was slaughter
constant and escalating
The principle he put behind his eyes was victory
which is the last true shape
The principle he put into his hands was tribute —
to Oryx, King of Taking
Tithing to his Lord, that the First Navigator might escape
the need to kill for subsistence, the worm need
That He might use His power to lead the final work
A most faithful servant. Most faithful.
From mighty Crota, Son of Navigation, Sword of Pits,
He learned to make his Oversoul
Saying: challenge me, by the law of my ascendance
Match me in bloodshed
Or in blood be drowned


Golgoroth

Speak to the heart with burrowing things
The burrowing things will strengthen the heart
You, ab-Xol, you teach the new flesh out of the old
Xol issued you to eat us
The new flesh will be testament
O Eir, decree the shape of this new thing
Judge its testament to the last truth
This new shape is Golgoroth
Crota rose to petition
Father, cut the shapes into a tablet
Give me the tablet
I will bear it in battle
And tithe one side of my sword to you
Oryx cut the shapes into a tablet
But he guarded the shapes
He set the tablet in Golgoroth
Where the new flesh grew as Eir decreed it
Like ice on a stone he rebuked Crota,
From the temples of his son, from the left of his blade
in battle, he demanded
tithings of violence
To Oryx, the First Navigator, who directed the movements
of great masses


Ir Halak, Deathsinger

Oryx was dividing the spawn
he cut apart the larvae
with his sword
And the two divided pieces
Grew into twins.
She who stands ahead
at the prow of the ship of Oryx, her father,
she is Ir Halak,
The Unraveler.
She plies her blades upon the fabric of space,
cuts the seams,
pulls apart the cloth,
leaves worlds in tatters.


Ir An&#251;k, Deathsinger

Behind The Unraveler comes Ir An&#251;k,
The Weaver.
She takes in hand the threads of her sister's work,
weaves them into the tapestry of Oryx's realm.
Listen, An&#251;k
An&#251;k, who favors bitter things
Of the eleven axioms, choose one
Of the chosen, spare none
Upon Eir’s attendance, say
Come, Eir, look
This truth is dead


Krughor

Listen, Yul, to the count of my Court
Listen to me, for I am attired in wrath
First I count Krughor, touched by Savath&#251;n
I boast of Krughor, invincible
Distant Savath&#251;n hid the death of Krughor
inside another curse
At the Golden Amputation, when I paced ten times
Krughor sent forth the accursed


Lokaar

Who is this nameless thing?
She fell upon Omnigul, whose aspects multiply, saying
I am diminished. Gift me your death.
My son Crota came to me, saying
This nameless thing moves sideways
I chased her, and she fled
Kill her now
So I raised her to my court
I named her Lokaar, which means Not There
Thus my son was rebuked against simplicity


Alzok D&#228;l, Gornuk D&#228;l, Zyrok D&#228;l

First, before my daughters
I saw Alzok lead her sisters through the eye
Saying, death will be our coven
With black fire and gray blade
Gornuk consecrated their singing
They cut their deaths away
To Zyrok I said
Show me the place where you have hidden your death
I am Oryx, your lord
Oryx, my lord, she said
We have hidden our deaths in each other
So that we will never be alone


Vorlog

Ah, Vorlog! Delight of delights
You killed my Celebrants, and you gave their deaths to me
Preaching: I have seen the truth in bronze glass space
This shape is the only god
Exquisite Vorlog
Your strength was manifold; it was knight strength
Mastery of armaments and techniques 
It was wizard strength, the use of arcana
Praise Vorlog, general and pragmatist
Vorlog! Listen —
Your name means Less Than Me
I define it thus.


Balw&#251;r

To Balw&#251;r I entrust, with bitter tongue
A terrible work
Daughter of Savath&#251;n, untouched by time
Your death is hidden well
You will be Suzerain of Metabolisms
Gather up the Lie Shapes
Neither eat nor mock them, as you crave
Instead, learn to chew them into poisons
Craft for me a flawless armor word
Separate the death from the dying
Cut the shadow apart from the fire
Make the fire burn hot
Arm us with weapons against our foe
Arm my court for the long crusade


Thalnok, Fanatic of Crota

Laugh and laugh at Thalnok! He is easily deceived
He will never hear this song
Diminished in sense
Small of purpose
In all ways Thalnok mantles Crota, My Son
He comes to the High War, My Court
Greedy to hear me say
Welcome, child
My Son Crota, Hope-Eater, I taught him
with cold edge and spiteful word
To ask for nothing
I create Thalnok to My Court
So that I may observe my son
by faithful, foolish proxy
Listen —
The last true shape
depends on, asks for, venerates
nothing



The Vex
"Living metal. Incomprehensible intelligence."
The Vex are architects of ancient and complex structures thought to be buried within every celestial body. Linked by a network unlike any on Earth, they operate in unison, directed by a single unfathomable purpose.


Goblin
"All their joints turning together. Moving together. Towards you."
The Goblin is the basic unit in the vast computational network that is the Vex. Shattering the large, fan-shaped head does not seem to cause lasting damage but sends the Goblin into a crackling frenzy.


Hobgoblin
"The air by my cheek twanged twice, stinking of ozone, before I saw it."
Specialized for sniping, this lean, tough Vex model is fitted with improved optics and acute sensors in its horns. Like the Goblin, the Hobgoblin contains a milky radiolarian fluid. 
Attacking a Hobgoblin often triggers a defensive reflex - the Hobgoblin seals itself in stasis and waits for help.


Harpy
"It swam back and forth through the air, spinning, the single red eye looking - I realized - for me."
The fastest and most mobile Vex, the Harpy is an airborne unit often deployed in flocks on patrols and scouting missions. They must stop and stabilize before attacking.


Minotaur
"I thought it was at a safe distance. I was wrong."
Minotaurs pack brutal heat, but most of their processing power is devoted to the physics of building massive Vex complexes, suspected to extend through multiple dimensions. Minotaur models are thicker and harder to crack than any other bipedal Vex, and they use their teleportation capability aggressively.


Hydra
"Our shots dissolved in the translucent matrix around it, useless."
The Hydra is a miniature fortress. Despite its physical slowness, it is a rapid processor of the data fed to it by other Vex, and what it lacks in mobility it makes up for in impregnable defenses and rock-melting firepower.


Hezen Corrective

We understand the Vex as a network of thoughts, unified and vast. But not all Vex are the same. The Hezen Corrective is one example of a Vex subtype, set apart from other Vex by distinct behaviors and objectives. 
Swarming across the Ishtar Sink, these Vex aggressively seek out and attack the Fallen House of Winter, perform inscrutable operations around shining Confluxes, and even show interest in the Golden Age ruins left by the Ishtar Collective. 
The bulk of our contact with Vex forces on Venus has involved the Corrective. Those scholars willing to risk their reputations speculating about the Vex often assert that the Corrective is an agent of change, designed to solve problems and remake the world in a form suitable to the Vex. Others contend that Corrective is simply a strategic distraction - meant to draw attention away from the actions of the Hezen Protective.


Hezen Protective

The mysterious Hezen Protective is the second major Vex behavioral unit on Venus. Concentrated around the legendary Vault of Glass and the Endless Steps, the site of a massive Vex gate and the access point to the towering Citadel, the Protective's behavior seems very defensive.
But leading Cryptarchs and experienced Guardians warn that it would be a fatal mistake to think of the Vex as a conventional military occupying an area. Vex behavior is always a process, active and purposeful. The Protective is clearly engaged in a colossal project, but as with much Vex behavior, it's unclear whether their ultimate purpose is even comprehensible to us. The Protective may be reacting to an event that has yet to occur, or working towards a goal that - to us - is already historical fact.


Virgo Prohibition

Mars is wracked by an ongoing theater-level conflict between the Cabal and a Vex subtype known as the Virgo Prohibition. These aggressive, relentless Vex constantly test the Cabal exclusion zone, apparently heedless of losses.
In spite of the Vex onslaught, the Cabal have managed to expand its beachhead and maintain a hold on several mysterious Vex structures. The Prohibition's tactics seem to be failing in the short run.
But it seems unlikely that an organization with the sheer computational scope of the Vex could be dragged into a losing war of attrition. Is it possible that the Vex are trying to draw out the Cabal strength? Or that their surface losses are a distraction from a deeper strategic ploy?
Ikora Rey has proposed that the Vex units can best be understood as algorithms - each a unique mapping of inputs to behavioral responses. Perhaps the Virgo Prohibition is simply the wrong algorithm for its environment, and its failure will drive the greater Vex network to adapt and improve.


Sol Divisive

Beyond the towering Meridian Bay gate lies the Black Garden, adrift in time and space. And within the Garden dwell the Vex of the Sol Divisive, frozen in rapture.
We have precious little insight into the Divisive's behavior. They seem central to Vex actions in the solar system: the Garden is clearly a place of enormous power.
Legends and scant field reports all indicate that the Divisive Vex behave religiously. Why would a hyperintelligent, time-spanning thought mesh exhibit religious behavior? The answer seems as obvious as it is chilling: if the Vex found worship and devotion more effective than any other behavior, they would adopt worship. Whatever the Vex found - or made - in the Garden, it transcends even their power.


Precursors
Sol Primeval
Those who delve deep into the Vault of Glass have seen time itself torn asunder. Awestruck Ghosts report encounters with ancient Vex, their casings built long before the age of humanity.
It would be easy to assume these Vex are the ancestors of those we face today - but with the Vex it is never so simple.


Descendants
Sol Imminent
Survivors of the Vault of Glass report sightings of ancient Vex - ancient in the sense that they have endured for eons. Convergent analysis from multiple Ghosts suggests that these Vex exist in our future.
If the Vex exist in our future - or in a possible future - should we take this as evidence that their defeat is impractical or unattainable? The Guardian Vanguard is quick to point out that time travel remains a mystery, and that the continued existence of the Vex is not remotely a sure indication of humanity's extinction.


Ghost Fragment: Vex
From the Records of the Ishtar Collective
ESI: Maya, I need your help. I don't know how to fix this.
SUNDARESH: What is it? Chioma. Sit. Tell me.
ESI: I've figured out what's happening inside the specimen.
SUNDARESH: Twelve? The operational Vex platform? That's incredible! You must know what this means - ah, so. It's not good, or you'd be on my side of the desk. And it's not urgent, or you'd already have evacuated the site. Which means...
ESI: I have a working interface with the specimen's internal environment. I can see what it's thinking.
SUNDARESH: In metaphorical terms, of course. The cognitive architectures are so -
ESI: No. I don't need any kind of epistemology bridge.
SUNDARESH: Are you telling me it's human? A human merkwelt? Human qualia?
ESI: I'm telling you it's full of humans. It's thinking about us.
SUNDARESH: About - oh no.
ESI: It's simulating us. Vividly. Elaborately. It's running a spectacularly high-fidelity model of a Collective research team studying a captive Vex entity. 
SUNDARESH:...how deep does it go?
ESI: Right now the simulated Maya Sundaresh is meeting with the simulated Chioma Esi to discuss an unexpected problem.
[indistinct sounds]
SUNDARESH: There's no divergence? That's impossible. It doesn't have enough information.
ESI: It inferred. It works from what it sees and it infers the rest. I know that feels unlikely. But it obviously has capabilities we don't. It may have breached our shared virtual workspace...the neural links could have given it data...
SUNDARESH: The simulations have interiority? Subjectivity?
ESI: I can't know that until I look more closely. But they act like us.
SUNDARESH: We're inside it. By any reasonable philosophical standard, we are inside that Vex.
ESI: Unless you take a particularly ruthless approach to the problem of causal forks: yes. They are us.
SUNDARESH: Call a team meeting.
ESI: The other you has too.


Ghost Fragment: Vex 2
From the Records of the Ishtar Collective
SUNDARESH: So that's the situation as we know it.
ESI: To the best of my understanding.
SHIM: Well I'll be a [profane] [profanity]. This is extremely [profane]. That thing has us over a barrel.
SUNDARESH: Yeah. We're in a difficult position.
DUANE-MCNIADH: I don't understand. So it's simulating us? It made virtual copies of us? How does that give it power?
ESI: It controls the simulation. It can hurt our simulated selves. We wouldn't feel that pain, but rationally speaking, we have to treat an identical copy's agony as identical to our own.
SUNDARESH: It's god in there. It can simulate our torment. Forever. If we don't let it go, it'll put us through hell.
DUANE-MCNIADH: We have no causal connection to the mind state of those sims. They aren't us. Just copies. We have no obligation to them.
ESI: You can't seriously - your OWN SELF -
SHIM: [profane] idiot. Think. Think. If it can run one simulation, maybe it can run more than one. And there will only ever be one reality. Play the odds.
DUANE-MCNIADH: Oh...uh oh.
SHIM: Odds are that we aren't our own originals. Odds are that we exist in one of the Vex simulations right now.
ESI: I didn't think of that.
SUNDARESH: [indistinct percussive sound]


Ghost Fragment: Vex 3
From the Records of the Ishtar Collective
SUNDARESH: I have a plan.
ESI: If you have a plan, then so does your sim, and the Vex knows about it.
DUANE-MCNIADH: Does it matter? If we're in Vex hell right now, there's nothing we can -
SHIM: Stop talking about 'real' and 'unreal.' All realities are programs executing laws. Subjectivity is all that matters.
SUNDARESH: We have to act as if we're in the real universe, not one simulated by the specimen. Otherwise we might as well give up.
ESI: Your sim self is saying the same thing.
SUNDARESH: Chioma, love, please hush. It doesn't help.
DUANE-MCNIADH: Maybe the simulations are just billboards! Maybe they don't have interiority! It's bluffing!
SHIM: I wish someone would simulate you shutting up.
SUNDARESH: If we're sims, we exist in the pocket of the universe that the Vex specimen is able to simulate with its onboard brainpower. If we're real, we need to get outside that bubble.
ESI: ...we call for help.
SUNDARESH: That's right. We bring in someone smarter than the specimen. Someone too big to simulate and predict. A warmind.
SHIM: In the real world, the warmind will be able to behave in ways the Vex can't simulate. It's too smart. The warmind may be able to get into the Vex and rescue - us.
DUANE-MCNIADH: If we try, won't the Vex torture us for eternity? Or just erase us?
SUNDARESH: It may simply erase us. But I feel that's preferable to...the alternatives.
ESI: I agree.
SHIM: Once we try to make the call, the Vex may...react. So let's all savor this last moment of stability.
SUNDARESH: [indistinct sounds]
SHIM: You two are adorable.
DUANE-MCNIADH: I wish I'd taken that job at Clovis.


Ghost Fragment: Vex 4
Maya, Chioma, Duane-McNiadh and Shim decide to have a picnic before they send themselves into infinity.
Up here they have to act by biomechanical proxy. No human being in the Ishtar Academy has ever crossed the safety cordon and walked the ancient stone under the Citadel, the Vex construct that stabs up out of the world to injure space and time. It's not safe. The cellular Vex elements are infectious, hallucinogenic, entheogenic. The informational Vex elements are more dangerous yet— and there could be semiotic hazards beyond them, aggressive ideas, Vex who exist without a substrate. Even now, operating remote bodies by neural link, the team's thoughts are relayed through the warmind who saved them, sandboxed and scrubbed for hazards. Their real bodies are safe in the Academy, protected by distance and neural firewall.
But they walk together in proxy, pressed close, huddled in awe. Blue-green light, light the color of an ancient sea, washes over them. Each of their explorer bodies carries a slim computer. Inside, two hundred twenty-seven of copies of their own minds wait, patient and paused, for dispersal.
"I wonder where it came from," Duane-Mcniadh says. Of course he's the one to break the reverent silence. "The Citadel. I wonder if it was here before the Traveler changed Venus."
"It could have been latent," Chioma Esi suggests. She's the leader. She kept them together when it seemed like they faced actual, eternal torture. She pulled them through. "Seeded in the crust. Waiting for a period of geological quiescence, so it could grow."
Dr. Shim shrugs. "I think the Traveler did something paracausal to Venus. Something that cut across space and time. The Citadel seems to come from the past of a different Venus than our own. It doesn't have to make any sense by our logic, any more than the Moon's new gravity."
Maya Sundaresh walks at the center of the group. She's been too quiet lately. What happened to them wasn't her fault and maybe she'll believe that soon. "What could you do with it?" she murmurs, staring up. "If you understood it?"
Chioma puts an arm around her. "That's what we're going to find out. Where the Citadel can send us. Whether we can come back."
"They're not us any more." Maya looks down at herself, at the cache of her self-forks. "We're not going anywhere. We're sending them. They're diverging."
They rescued themselves from the inside of a Vex mind, two hundred and twenty-seven copies of themselves, untortured and undamaged. Those copies voted, all unanimously, to be dispatched into the Vex information network as explorers.
When Maya and Chioma look at each other they can tell they're each wondering the same thing: how many of them will stay together, wherever they go? How many fork-Mayas and fork-Chiomas will fall out of love? How many will end up bereft, grieving? How many will be happy, like them?
Chioma tries a little smile. Maya smiles back, haltingly, and then, sighing, unable to stop herself, grins a big stupid grin, an everything-is-okay grin. Shim makes a loud obnoxious awwww at them. Duane-McNiadh is still thinking about paracausality, and doesn't notice.
They climb. When they find the Vex aperture they plan to use, they overlay the luminous stone and ancient brassy machines with images of sun and sand. They set up the transmitters and interfaces that will translate two hundred and twenty-seven simulations of the four of them into Vex language, into the tangled pathways of the Vex network, to see what's out there, and maybe come home.
In the metaphor they've chosen, setting up the equipment is like laying out the picnic. In the metaphor they've chosen they look like themselves, not hardened explorer proxies. Like people.
"Do you think," Duane-McNiadh begins, halting, "that you could use this place to change things? If you regretted something, could you find a way through the Citadel, go back, and change it?"
"I wish I could go back and change you into someone else," Dr. Shim grouses. Chioma's shaking her head. She knows physics. "Time is self-consistent," she says. "I think it's like the story of the merchant and the alchemist. You could go back and watch something, or be part of something, but if you did, then that was the way it always happened."
"Maybe you could bring something back to now. Something you needed." Maya runs a hand across the surface of the Vex aperture, feeling it with sensors ten thousand times as precise as a human hand. These proxy bodies are limited— they crash and need resetting every few hours, they struggle with latency, they can't hold much long term memory. But they'll get better. "Or go forward and learn something vital. If you knew how to control it, how to navigate across space and time."
"So it's just a way to make everything more complicated." Duane-McNiadh sighs. "It doesn't fix anything. Nothing ever does! I should've taken that job at— "
"You would've hated it at Clovis," Dr. Shim says. "We both know you're happier here." Duane-McNiadh stands stunned by this courtesy, and then they both pretend to ignore each other.
The four of them set up the interface. Their stored copies wake up and prepare for the journey, so that as they work they find themselves surrounded by the mental phantasms of themselves: two hundred and twenty-seven Mayas and Chiomas knocking helmets and smiling, two hundred and twenty-seven Dr. Shims making cynical bets with each other about how long they'll last, two hundred and twenty-seven Duane-McNiadhs blowing goodbye kisses to the sweet golden sun, two hundred and twenty-seven of them shaking hands, smiling, making ready to explore.


Ghost Fragment: Vex 5

RECORD 0-CHASM-0
My love. I’ve opened this log as an apology.
As a scientist, I believe in record-keeping. I believe in protocols, peer review, and ethical conduct. I believe in the importance of disbelief — you know: let’s run that one more time.
What I’m doing here in Lhasa isn’t science. It’s unethical, secret, and shameful. And after what happened in Ishtar, dearest Chioma, I know you’d be furious with me for getting involved. Forty years isn’t far enough to forget a day like that.
But I believe it’s important. The least I can do is keep a few notes for you.
RECORD 0-CHASM-01
Trial one. Subject one. 
It was an act of stupid loneliness. I used the device on myself because I...
[silence: 0:08]
I missed you. We hadn’t been apart for more than a year since we met. I’m not a very good wife, am I? You write me every week, even with all Hyperion’s work and all Hyperion’s distance keeping you from me. And I act like it’s not enough. 
We built the device in mimicry of the Vex gateway systems from Ishtar. An observatory, yes, but I think of it as a mind-ship. Capable of displacing its payload across space and time.
The lab is cold and isolated. We are quarantined from the world, physically and mentally. We can’t send messages out. If we breach the Vex manifolds, even our words might transmit contagion. One night last month I missed you and so I —
I thought that I could look inside the device, and find one of the other Chiomas. I thought I could call out to one of the forks we sent out there to explore.
I just wanted to send my love.
RECORD 0-CHASM-02
Zakharik Gilmanovich Bekhterev. May he rest in peace. When our probes continued to fail, when my report remained our only positive finding, he volunteered to use the device. One minute of subjective experience inside.
We took precautions. They worked. Bekhterev’s experience left no physical damage.
After we extracted him, he said that he felt determined. I asked him what he meant and he said that he meant it, he had been determined, he could feel all his choices set out before him like a railroad. Deviation was impossible.
He died by suicide. I wonder if he was trying to make a point.
RECORD 0-CHASM-03
We’ve decided not to abort. It’s insane, isn’t it? There are pressures on us I can’t tell you about until I see you again.
The purpose of the system is intelligence, you see. It’s stenciled right on the hull: SxISR.  Special asset. We would very much like to make it work reliably. 
Our supervisory warmind has devised a drug it says will protect and prepare us.
I am beginning to wonder if we were wrong about the merchant and the alchemist. Or if that explanation of time was incomplete.
RECORD 0-CHASM-09
Kind Lakpha. He meditated before he went in. Nothing but d&#233;j&#224; vu and three seconds of screams. The screaming passed and he remembers nothing. The d&#233;j&#224; vu hasn’t. He says it’s getting better — he feels that we’ve had this conversation only ten times before, not a thousand. 
I’ve suggested that we attempt mind forking. We need more sane people to work with. Please forgive me, my love.
We are all growing superstitious. The behavior of the device is inconsistent. Impossible to replicate. We turn to ritual behavior to appease it.
RECORD 0-CHASM-31
Rajesh. When he reached a displacement of eight he told us he was dead. I believed him. He was dead. He spoke to us. It was true. Whatever he saw, it was his own future.
He’s fine, afterwards. When I look into his eyes I wonder what came back wearing his skin. But that thought is unscientific.
We speak of nothing but the device. We talk about it like a demigod. When I get out of here I know the whole world will look like a fraying veil.
I think it’s clear that part of the problem is substrate. We need more than flesh and drug to survive this.
RECORD 0-CHASM-52
I heard you, my love. I was at six, oscillating on the event axis, coordinated with a known manifold. I heard you. You were talking to me — not me, but another me, another Maya Sundaresh.
You said, my love, so many strange things have happened, and it’s been so long. We’ve come so far. Do you ever want to go home?
And I said, not me but the other me, I said, my love, I am always home.
I’m resigning, my love. I’m done with this work and I’m done with being apart from you. I’ll see you again soon. I can’t take this journal out with me, so I’ve left it for the others, and asked them to continue the log.
Maybe it’ll become a tradition. The gospel of our little cult.



Slap Rifle

From a tactical perspective, the Slap Rifle is a Vex directed-energy weapon that fills their analog of the light infantry role. From an engineering perspective it's something much more interesting: a terminal. The Slap Rifle receives a bolt of Solar energy from somewhere (or somewhen) else and it points it at a target.
The terminal's flexibility is impressive. In non-combat conditions, the Slap Rifle seems like it might serve as a viable field transmitter, construction tool, navigational beacon, network repeater, or any of a number of other utility functions.


Line Rifle

The Vex Line Rifle fires high-velocity Solar particle jets. Deployed on the Hobgoblin chassis, the Line Rifle serves as a sniper weapon, pinning down targets or delivering the killing blow. 
Like the Slap Rifle, the Line Rifle is a terminal weapon, although its source is much more energetic. Some believe the weapon pulls material from the accretion disk of a galactic singularity. This would imply the Vex are near - or have already achieved - access to a terrifying range of civilization-killing weapons. Others consider this unlikely, and propose that the Line Rifle simply draws from a central Vex power supply.


Torch Hammer

The Torch Hammer is a devastating Vex heavy weapon. Firing projectiles of strange matter, the Hammer mauls targets with exotic particle decay and deadly radiation.


Slap Grenade

The Vex use Slap Grenades to drive targets out into the open. These devices behave more like miniaturized gates than conventional explosives, channeling a Void energy pulse from a remote location.


Cyclops

The Cyclops is a huge, stationary Vex construct with a powerful Void weapon. Guardians think of Cyclops as gun platforms - batteries installed to protect key points with devastating mortar fire.
But some evidence suggests that the Cyclops is in fact an enormous sensor or beacon, and that its weapons capabilities are secondary. What the Cyclops senses remains unknown, although its mind core is vast. It may play a role in the Vex networked intelligence, or in navigation across space and time.
A damaged Cyclops can be forced into a state of punch-drunk confusion, its inputs overwhelmed by hostile fire. This can result in fratricidal kills on other Vex units.



Zydron, Gate Lord

The intelligence we call Zydron seems to exist in a liminal state, stretched between gates in the Vex network. It manifests as a physical being only when called.
Warlock scholars believe that Gate Lords regulate traffic between Vex gates, and that their minds contain codes that might open the way into forbidden realms. An enormous amount of hope and anger has been spent on a particular debate - could we find a Vex gate that opens onto a place and time before the Collapse, and somehow forestall it?


Prohibitive Mind

Vex Axis Minds are individual Vex hulls that contain local instances of superordinate Vex goal sets. This cryptic phrase means something reasonably simple - the Axis Mind contains a copy of all the information required to pursue a particular objective.
This allows other nearby Vex to focus on their local tasks, leaving global planning to the Axis Mind. Of course, this also introduces a centralized weakness for enemies to target. But the Vex seem to consider the tradeoff worthwhile.
The Prohibitive Mind seems to coordinate Vex action against Cabal positions in Meridian Bay. The current Vex operational plan - to the extent that we assume the Vex have operational plans - appears to involve an attritional campaign on the surface, supplemented by disruptive use of gates to bypass Cabal hardpoints.


Sol Progeny
To Commander Zavala - My Thoughts on Recent Events
Zavala -
How like you to ask me for the bad news, even in this moment of triumph. I've finished going over that Ghost's report. 
It is my hypothesis - a hypothesis at best - that the Vex saw the abominable presence at the heart of the Garden as a divine power. I can hear your protest already: how can machines have a god?
The answer is simple. The Vex, for all their voracious intelligence, could not understand or decipher what they found. They searched through all available reactions, and they settled on the course with the greatest payoff...to worship this power, and to remake themselves in its image.
I believe the three Axis Minds found in proximity to the abomination were Vex machines built to serve as vessels for this power: a way to extend its reach across space and time, binding it to the Vex, and the Vex to it. If they had succeeded, I cannot begin to guess what horrors they would have unleashed.
Attend carefully. There is cause for hope. When endangered, the abomination activated these vessels and defended itself. This tells us that it was threatened. Whatever it was, Guardians could harm it.
And it activated only a single vessel at a time. Its strength was limited. Whatever it intended, it was not ready yet.
We must assume the abomination was part of something greater. And we cannot flinch from the terrible, obvious comparison: just as the Traveler acts through us, this power was able to act through its own servants.
Let us be wary. There may be other abominations, and other vessels.
Ikora


Sekrion, Nexus Mind

The Vanguard's intelligence sources now believe, with good confidence, that Sekrion oversees the expansion of the Vex network through the crust of Venus.
The Hydra chassis common to many Vex Axis Minds boasts impressive computational capacity. Sekrion likely uses this capacity to regulate coordination and crosstalk between Minotaurs operating in the construction role.
Destroying Sekrion should significantly hamper the Vex effort to incorporate the entire planet into their network.


The Gorgons

Deep in the Vault of Glass, the fabric of reality bends to the will of the Vex. Warlocks speak in tones of awe of the Gorgons - creatures that seem to possess a dreaded, almost unimaginable strength: an ontological weapon.
Like the Oracles and the Templar, the Gorgons reputedly possess the ability to define what is and is not real. Whatever they perceive becomes subject to erasure at their will. Until a countermeasure can be found, Guardians must avoid their gaze at all costs - or reply to any detection with immediate, overwhelming force.
The Gorgons' ability must be tied to the nature of the Vault of Glass. We can take some solace in the clear fact that the Vex cannot manifest this power in the world outside.


The Templar

Even among the Axis Minds, the Templar is extraordinary. Fragmentary glimpses and scattered reports suggest a Hydra of impossible capabilities - a creature out of time.
The Templar and the Oracles guard the way into the deeper Vault. Legends say that the Oracles foresee what is to come, a world as the Vex desire it - and that the Templar has the power to shape reality to match the Oracles' design, expunging any threats.
The power of the Vault flows through the Templar. It will take something extraordinary to shatter its shield.


Atheon, Time's Conflux

To speak of Atheon is to accept certain limitations. We are ill-equipped to understand an entity that defies simple causality. Let us accept these limitations and proceed.
Atheon waits in the Vault of Glass. Just as Atheon sidesteps 'past' and 'future', it is impossible to say whether Atheon created the Vault or the Vault created Atheon. Causal pathways converge on Atheon from every axis in the space-time bulk.
Atheon has a function. We hazard that it regulates and oversees the Vex conflux system. What are these confluxes? How do they relate to the physical Vex network that has devoured so much of Mercury and Venus?
We might guess that the Vex confluxes represent the extension of this network across space and time. Perhaps the Vex use closed timelike curves to solve unfathomable computations. Or the Vex may seek to transcend a physical substrate, and move their thoughts directly into the fundament of the universe. 
If physics is a set of rules that the cosmos uses to calculate itself, perhaps the Vex seek to worm their way into these calculations: to become a law of reality, inseparable from existence. A virus in the system. Perhaps Atheon was the centerpiece of this project, a command nexus that unified efforts across time.
But we must accept that all of this is speculation.


The Undying Mind
"We are starting to believe that time is home to the Vex, and somewhere in those unmappable voids dwell their undying minds."
Commander Zavala: And you believe it's different than the others.
Ikora: I know it is.
Cayde-6: Let me guess... Chasing more Vex "minds"?
Ikora: The readings from nearby surges hold no time function.  It could quite possibly be resealing the Black Garden back into whatever void it once hid.
Cayde-6: Any more Hidden intel?
Zavala: Negative. Just some old Osiris riddles.
Cayde-6: They are starting to feel like the same thing.
Ikora: We cannot just ignore it. We have to keep the Garden here, among the Light. We are just beginning to match its pathways to this fractured data from the Archive.
Cayde-6: Interesting, undying, huh? What do you suppose they meant by that.
Zavala: I'll alert the Speaker. Let's find out.


Overmind Minotaur
"Not all Minds are alike."
The Overmind Minotaurs arrived at the Prison as extensions of  the Gate Lord, Qodron. Their mission: to act in accordance to the path of Qodron and see that Gate Lord's future is secured.


Qodron, Gate Lord
"It is no prisoner. It is here with a purpose."
Qodron sees only its own glorious future.  It has come to the Prison of Elders, with an army of devout Vex war-machines, to take what it believes to be its first steps toward that future.
This machine beast has only one mission. At some point a Light will shine within the walls of this Prison, and for its gloried future to unfold, that Light must die. 
Qodron is not the prisoner here. You are, Guardian.


Theosyion, the Restorative Mind
"Restorative Minds are of the Weavers, carrying the means to undo any Mind's undoing."
The appearance of the Restorative Mind purports that the death of the Nexus Mind was a devastating blow to Vex efforts on Venus. But with its appearance comes many questions: if the Vex could unleash time as a weapon against humanity, why does humanity still stand? Are we so insignificant a threat that the Vex haven’t bothered with total annihilation? Or is it that the very state of mankind, diminished to a Last City, is of Vex doing? That the Vanguard exists in a causal loop that the Vex control in its entirety, one from which there is no escape?



The Cabal
"I think you could follow a trail of shattered worlds all the way to their home."
Tactically efficient, disciplined, and unrelenting, the Cabal are the greatest known military force in the system. Their origins and ultimate objectives are a mystery, but it seems clear they have conquered more worlds than humanity has ever known.
Cabal soldiers wear pressurized armor that replicates the environment of their high-gravity homeworld. Their field tactics depend on ranks of Legionaries supported by air power, elite infantry, and ultra-heavy armor.


Legionary
"Their only tactic seems to be 'slow advance.' The problem is, they're really good at it."
Propelled by jump packs and wielding powerful slug rifles, Legionaries are the Cabal's line infantry and the backbone of their military power on the ground. Common Legionary tactics center on the bounding advance - some units attack the target while others close the range or find new firing positions.


Centurion
"They're not breaking. Why aren't they breaking?"
Centurions are tactically intelligent, highly skilled field commanders. Their armor boasts a formidable array of combat electronics and deployable munitions.


Colossus
"Where a Colossus stands, many will fall."
Towering over other Cabal, equipped with rapid-firing heavy weapons and nearly impenetrable armor, the Colossus is the most devastating heavy infantry unit in the Cabal order of battle.


Psion
"There is no higher warfare than deception."
Psions are smaller than all other Cabal morphs, and may be an unrelated species. Hyper-intelligent, fast and unpredictable, they possess strong psionic capabilities - including the ability to emit disorienting and deadly psychokinetic Arc blasts.


Phalanx
"Remember, they have to take a shot sometime."
Phalanx soldiers carry massive shields, used for both attack and defense. While this protection is nearly impenetrable, clever opponents can bait the Phalanx or sneak shots around the shield.


Sand Eaters
"The sooner we're extinguished, the sooner they can go home."
The Cabal formation first and most frequently encountered by Guardians, the Sand Eaters represent the numerical bulk of the Cabal presence on Mars. Their equipment, tactics, and morale all show the weight of a long deployment - but they continue to pursue their objectives with dogged, weary determination.


Dust Giants
"Position compromised. Casualties unsustainable. Request heavy air. Request [Dust Giants]."
Highly trained and heavily conditioned, Dust Giant soldiers seem to be recruited from veteran Sand Eater infantry. The Cabal order of battle positions them as a mobile reserve and shock force, rolled in to blunt major Vex offensives and reinforce crumbling lines.


Siege Dancers
"I've seen how fast they work. We have to hit them before they make the next move."
The Cabal's elite forward unit, the Siege Dancers are deployed into unsecured areas to take control and set up fortifications. Their tactical doctrine allows more freedom to unit commanders - perhaps because their missions face much greater unknowns.
Siege Dancer engineers have been observed to compete in demolition challenges. Whether this represents training or a form of recreation is unknown.


Blind Legion
"PERIMETER SECURE."
The Cabal presence on Mars is locked in an endless war with the Vex - and at the heart of this war is the Blind Legion. Deployed to defend vital artifacts seized from the Vex, the Legion holds its ground with fanatic zeal. 
Blind Legion soldiers brave one of the most thankless, grueling assignments in the Cabal order of battle: descending into buried ruins and black catacombs to sweep for Vex presence.


Skyburners
“The second fleet will wait no longer. Commencement will begin on their arrival.”
Rumors of a yet-to-be-deployed Cabal Fleet have long haunted the Vanguard Hall. Hidden efforts unveiled the Phobos fleetbases house what is merely the first wave of a full-scale celestial demolition fleet, codenamed Skyburners.  Ghost scans of the ships and reports of a large Psion presence have Warlocks anxious to learn of their weaponry. Dead Orbit assures the City that the Skyburner fleet poses no immediate threat to the City.


Cabal Champions

Executor, I want to note again how strongly I feel that the tenets do not cover this kind of field work.  The real battle is back home, in the heart of the City, in the people of the Tower.
In any case, as you requested I've made a detailed study of the Cabal command structure aboard the Dreadnaught.  Detailed notes are enclosed, but suffice it to say their normally robust military engine has found itself hopelessly mired aboard Oryx's fortress.
Our assaults on Cabal leadership in-system has had a devastating impact.  The Skyburner's Primus, his bond-brothers, Valus Ta'aurc, Valus Trau'ug, Primus Sha'aull, and a smattering of lesser Vals and Bracuses... all dead or on the run, all thanks to us.
In short, I believe your supposition is correct.  The Empire will have no choice but to respond.


Ghost Fragment: Cabal

I have stayed with the Cabal, even as the Light in me dims - I have been too far from the Traveler for too long. If I am not destined to find my own Guardian, at least I can inform the City of what I've learned.
I thought Mars would be the place to find a Guardian. The sand preserves everything well, and Clovis Bray had been famous for attracting talent. The brave, the brilliant, the footloose, those restless on Earth and itching for fame. I stowed away aboard a Mars scout ship, hoping.
No luck. The sand ate everything. Clothes from skin, skin from bone. It was as if there were never any people here at all. I have been through every broken window in every building. Nothing. That is, no Guardian material. And no ride back to Earth. The scout was long gone.
What I did find, however, was a way into the Cabal Warbase. Their runty piggish eyes are too dull to see me, as long as I stay out of their defense systems. The Psions are a different matter: Too quick, too clever, throwing their minds around like hammers. I creep around walls, or dig into a heap of canisters and watch from there.
There is a vast Empire behind these creatures, many star systems away. Some pledge allegiance to that far Empire, obeying their ancient marching orders. Some do not. They disagree among themselves about the answers. I wish arguing Cabal on no one. They slam their plated bodies into each other with horrendous roars. Intelligence gathering has never been so painful.


Ghost Fragment: Cabal 2

A hologram of a spinning golden planet, in stasis, turning gently. You can see the storms moving over its face. But when the Commanders congregate below it, when they activate whatever controls are below, it changes. Fissures appear on its face. Is that their home? When the room empties I play with the controls, but it's older, native technology that I don't recognize at all.
I don't know what it means. It's not difficult to hide in these caverns when you're as small as I am, although the Psions tend to look around them when they pass me. There are infinitely many cracks and crannies. They are not a race that fears infiltration or espionage.
There is meaning to the structure and layout of their buildings. This is a warrior people, and they lay out their fortifications along ancient principles and time-tested strategies. I can't figure out the sense that lies behind it. I would need ten times the computing power for inference calculations. But I know it's there. I can intuit it. It's like an open hand, ready to squeeze into a fist. A threat. A gesture of power.
For all their might and strength, for all that they have dug into Mars and flung up battle walls with the bureaucratic grimness of conquerors, I suspect they are fleeing from something. That within their hard shells and thousand-folded shields is a sharp seed of terror. But of what? Does something follow them? Should we fear it too?


Ghost Fragment: Cabal 3

Today, Primus Ta’aun leads from the front.
He pounds from bunker to bunker, roaring encouragement. “You’re my cornerstone!” he tells a wounded Centurion, grabbing her by her armored shoulders. “Bear the weight!”
He gets back up, into the fight. “Come on!” Tlu’urn snaps at him, running along behind Ta’aun and saying all the cruel things his commander can’t. “You don’t need two arms to fight!”
He calls for fire support. Artillery shrieks overhead. On the plains below the Cabal perimeter, Vex march out of the lightning. Torch hammers burst up like mortars and Ta’aun and his bond brother duck behind a burning Interceptor for cover.
“This is going well,” Tlu’urn rumbles.
A Vex particle beam needles a little hole through the Centurion’s helmet. He falls dead. Goblins swarm over her bunker and then the Goliath tank supporting this bastion fires a main gun round into the mess, killing the Vex, the bunker, and all the Legionaries inside. The concussion knocks Tlu’urn against his Primus.
“About as well as expected,” Ta’aun grunts. Tlu’urn laughs.
The grind is eternal. Like duty. Ta’aun keeps fighting, out here past the edge of the Empire, because failure is unthinkable. Defeat’s much worse than death.
But Ta’aun is so, so tired.
Tlu’urn gets up and starts shooting Vex. “You’re not really going to do it.” Even though he’s fully armored, and only a meter away, his voice on the com crashes with static. “You’re not going to go. It’s mad.”
The Vex Hobgoblins start firing at Tlu’urn.
Particle beams scream and spark off his enormous bulk. Ta’aun yanks him back to cover. A maniple of Phalanx troops rush forward to plug the gap. “I have my orders. Our report went all the way up, and the decision came all the way back.”
Valus Tlu’urn’s blank helmet swivels to stare. “You mean — ?”
“It came from the Emperor Himself.” Ta’aun can feel the pressure gel pumping against his skin, keeping him insulated from this deadly world, keeping him alive. “I’m ordered to board and capture the Hive flagship. At any cost.”
A Vex Minotaur blinks up behind the Phalanx line. Primus Ta’aun’s armor paints the target and he absolutely unloads, putting all his fear and anger and sorrow into the wretched machine. He roars and roars. The Minotaur burns.
His soldiers cheer.
“That’s a job for an elite unit. Not a few scout legions bogged down in attrition war. We should wait until — ”
“It’s the mission I’ve been given. I will use what I have.”
“Mutiny,” Tlu’urn whispers. “You should mutiny.”
Oh, to mutiny. To be like Valus Trau’ug, who took his Broken Legion against the Reef — and failed, failed utterly.
Duty is victory. Mutiny is worse than death. Even if death seems certain.
“No,” Ta’aun says. And that’s that.
The Vex are falling back. Together, they’ve held the line.


Ghost Fragment: Cabal 4
For the Staff of Primus Ta'aun, Legion Commander
From Skyburner V Cohort/Auxiliaries/Strategic Intelligence Maniple
A Tactical Outcomes Analysis
I: Records, Materials, and Attributions Pursuant To Analysis
Sand Eater II Cohort/Century 1/Maniple 8
2 Squad [LINE INF]
TASK:
   -   sweep urban area grid 071x145 to screen BL I/3/3/5 intelligence op
OUTCOME: 
   -   unit ambushed by solitary Guardian. no survivors
Sand Eater II Cohort/Century 1/Maniple 8
3 Squad [TAC INF]
TASK:
   -   reinforce II/1/8/2 in disarray grid 071x145 
OUTCOME:
   -   unit engaged by Guardian and Vex units. no survivors.
Dust Giant IV Cohort/Century 4/Maniple 1
4 Squad [AIRMOBILE]
TASK:
   -   secure grid 071x145, destroy guardian target
OUTCOME:
   -   target Guardian temporarily destroyed. target re-engaged with Guardian reinforcements. no friendly survivors.
Dust Giant IV Cohort/Century 4/Maniple 1
Harvester Dropship [TAC AIR]
TASK:
   -   support IV/4/1/4 operations in 071x145
OUTCOME:
   -   dropship shot down. crew reported Guardians operating elaborate totem rocket weapons.
Blind Legion I Cohort/Century 3/Maniple 3
5 Squad [HEAVY INF]
TASK:
   -   defend Psion intelligence ops 071x146
OUTCOME:
   -   overwhelmed by Guardian fireteam/Vex pressure. few survivors. survivors reported Guardians foraging for equipment, dancing, and performing acrobatics with light vehicles.II: Analysis
This is an archetypical engagement. It represents many hundreds of failed operations.
Guardian activity in the Freehold AO has exploded across recent campaign seasons. Tactical attrition exceeds both frictional projections and our ability to regenerate losses. New tactics are necessary.    
The primary threat is the Guardians’ individual counter-attrition capability. 
Guardians can be rebuilt after even total disintegrative trauma. This capability is provided by a small autonomous drone unit called a Dead Person [trans. unclear]. The Dead Person conceals itself during combat. It is not a viable target for direct fire. Saturation attack by artillery/heavy air/orbital fire may have good effect (although Guardians transmat frequently and refuse to assemble into large formations).
Solitary Dead Persons have been observed in all areas of operation. The relationship between solitary and paired Dead Persons remains unclear.
Psion analysis indicates that specific areas are inimicable to Guardian counter-attritional reconstruction. Phobos Command has initiated an orbital survey. BL I/2 will attack the Vex gate artifact in Meridian Bay to secure possible related intelligence.
Flayer analysis suggests that the Hive have developed unconventional counter-Dead Person capability. The capture of Hive leadership might yield vital strategic intelligence, including weapons or tactics capable of defeating Guardians permanently.
We advance that the Hive fleet group near Saturn presents a strong target.
For the Primus,
Our highest duty done,
Unflinchingly loyal,
Skyburner V/A/SI



Slug Rifle

The workhorse of the Cabal field arsenal, this weapon's apparent simplicity belies the technology behind it. Each round is a microrocket capable of efficient operation in varying environmental and gravitational conditions. Standard-issue warheads mount a duplex explosive that combines an armor-piercing penetrator with a flesh-shredding shrapnel bus.
Cabal forces on Mars favor rockets with low velocity but high impact, perhaps due to their effectiveness against the Vex. In Guardian parlance, these weapons deal Solar damage.


Projection Rifle

This weapon fires salvos of explosive rounds designed to incapacitate, disorient, and destroy. The weapon feeds ballistic data to each projectile at the moment of launch, coordinating the salvo for maximum effect. These weapons deal Solar damage.


Heavy Slug Thrower

This devastating squad support weapon is capable of completely halting enemy advances with a hail of microrockets. It performs so well that it has undergone very little enhancement or modification since its introduction. The Cabal's Colossus heavy infantry units wield Heavy Slug Throwers to devastating effect.
In Guardian parlance, these weapons deal Solar damage.


Cabal Shield

Built to the same spec as Cabal hull plating, this tactical shield is nearly indestructible to conventional weapons. It has integrated sensors that relay information not only to the shield bearer but also the Cabal battle network, allowing nearby units to coordinate more effectively.


Harvester

The blocky, dull exterior of the Cabal Harvester belies the grace and power with which they maneuver. Guardians have described them dropping in aggressively from low orbit with a deafening boom, kicking up dust storms and swooping through the silent skyscrapers of Mars' dead cities.
Harvesters often remain on station after deploying Cabal troops, providing support fire with their turrets. These weapons deal Solar damage.


Interceptor

Though they lack the speed of a Fallen Pike, and their unwieldy shape cannot match the maneuverability of a Guardian's Sparrow, the Cabal Interceptor more than makes up for both shortcomings with firepower - a pair of low-velocity, high-yield anti-personnel/anti-armor cannons on articulated mounts. These weapons deal Solar damage.
Powered by a variant of the same boosters used in infantry jump jets and the massive Goliath tanks, Interceptors skate over the dunes of Mars, keeping close watch on the Cabal Exclusion Zone.


Goliath Tank

With a few blood-curdling exceptions, the Goliath is the single largest piece of ground-based ordnance the Cabal has deployed in our system. These huge armored vehicles sport an incredible arsenal of weapons, tailor-made for massive area denial. The Goliath's main gun is almost certainly capable of engaging spacecraft.
Four massive boosters keep the Goliath mobile. This locomotion system makes the Goliath surprisingly agile, but it is also a weakness. Targeting the boosters should allow a quick mobility kill, rendering the Goliath vulnerable to follow-up attack.
Most Goliath weapons deal Solar damage.



Bracus Tho'ourg
Victory comes on the wings of death.
Reports of the one they call Bracus Tho'ourg began in the earliest days of contact with the Cabal. The first Guardians who faced him are long lost, but the legends speak of a powerful commander who secured the Buried City with merely a fraction of the Cabal's forces on Mars. If these reports are accurate, they provide clues not only to Tho'ourg's tactical prowess but to the Cabal lifespan.


Bracus Tha'aurn
Embrace suffering. Only then can it be conquered.
Bracus Tha'aurn appears remarkable among Cabal commanders for his interest in the glories of our Golden Age. Having been faced only in the company of Psions, the Vanguard has reason to believe he maintains some sort of command over their deployment.


Primus Sha'aull
If your enemy speaks with a blade, master the sword.
No one knows what fascination the Vex hold for the leader of the Blind Legion, but Primus Sha'aull has put his command at great risk by pushing into lands occupied by the machines.


The Psion Flayers
"We have just as much to learn from our enemies as we do from our past."
Somewhere among their forces, the Cabal hide one of their most powerful weapons, the Psion Flayers. The extent of their ability is still uncharted, but Cryptarch studies and Warlock fears have led the Vanguard to classify them as a serious threat.
Many among the Warlock orders believe the Flayers pulled Phobos from its natural orbit, holding it in place, waiting for the order to release as a weapon.


Valus Ta'aurc
"The last sounds to reach their ears were the creak of tank tread and the battle-cry of Ta'aurc."
From his armored seat of power, Valus Ta'aurc has claimed more ground on Mars than any known Cabal commander. His name is feared throughout Meridian Bay, and the tread-marks left by his tank have come to signify the expansion of the Cabal's ever-widening Exclusion Zone.


Val Aru'un
"Enter as soldier, survive on the crushed ambitions of lesser warriors."
Aru'un's ascension to Val will never be considered official by the Cabal High Command proper, but in the Prison of Elders the approval of the outside world is meaningless. To his fellow prisoners, Aru'un is a Val worthy of following.


Valus Trau'ug
"Trau'ug. In your tongue its meaning is something akin to 'less talk, more action.'"
Valus Trau'ug retains the title of Valus only in defiance to his ex-allies and commanders in Cabal high command.
When the Cabal high command ignored his pleas to advance on the Reef, he viewed their inaction as weakness. The most loyal members of his legion pledged their fealty and Trau'ug took to massacring his officers, marking himself  and his soldiers as traitors of the Empire. 
Trau'ug then set course for the Reef. How he and his army became denizens of the Prison of Elders is not public record, and Variks tends to skirt the issue when pressed. What is known, is that Trau'ug's bloodlust and mastery of wartime stratagem is intact within the prison.
Using battle-tested Cabal field techniques, the Broken Legion crush any who dare accept Trau'ug's challenge. His custom-rigged shield randomizer keeps attackers off guard as he presses every advantage.


Valus Tlu'urn

Martian battlefield reports note that Valus Tlu'urn's weapon of choice is a back-mounted Arc cannon. The device delivers a payload so powerful the Vanguard estimates Tlu’urn could face a Goliath Tank himself. The Valus carries recharging Arc cells that feed energy to the cannon, allowing him to siege enemy emplacements indefinitely.
Reports suggest he is commanded by Primus Ta'aun and shares battalion duties with Valus Mau’ual. Together, this  Cabal triumvirate is responsible for the deaths of countless Guardians on the Martian battlefields.


Valus Mau'ual

Reports suggest Valus Mau’ual's armor allows him a degree of maneuverability unseen from other Cabal warriors. It features a never-before-seen propulsion system that improves on the Valus’s already considerable striking ability.
Tales of his skill in hand-to-hand combat on the Martian frontlines claim he carries no firearm into battle, preferring instead to charge headlong like a nimble boulder.



The Darkness

Something hit us. Killed our Golden Age. Nearly wiped us out. Only the Traveler saved us, and at a shattering cost.
The Speaker tells of a cosmic force that swept over us and caused the Collapse. Legend calls it the Darkness, the Traveler's ancient enemy, which hunted it across space.
All we have left are questions. Centuries of debate gave birth to competing arguments on the nature of the Darkness and the Collapse.
The Pujari Position describes the Darkness as a force with both physical and moral presence, an actualization of evil. Pujari art depicts the Darkness as a great storm, or as a change in conduct, a corruption that emerged from within and poisoned the Golden Age.
Saint-14's Position argues that the Darkness was an invading armada, an alien force of incredible - but tangible - power. Some adherents believe that this armada sprang from species rejected or discarded by the Traveler for their sins.
Ulan-Tan's Thesis considers the Darkness a necessary symmetry to the Traveler in a cosmic balance. In this view, the Traveler's goodness led it to sacrifice for others, and it is up to us to return this goodness by healing the Traveler.
The Monist Position, or the Deflationary Position, considers the Darkness as a technologically sophisticated force, perhaps a post-Singularity intelligence. Adherents invoke information theory or contend that the universe is a simulation, allowing advanced intelligence to gain weakly acausal powers by bending the rules.
The Acataleptic Clause claims that we are intrinsically unable to understand the Darkness. In many respects this belief parallels the Praxic Creed, which suggests that we should stop worrying about the nature of the Darkness and focus on resisting and defeating it.
Certain positions - often labeled heretical - imply that the Traveler itself triggered the Collapse, or that it knew the Darkness was coming for it and hoped to use the Solar System as a sacrifice or a proxy army. The Binary Star cult is one notable example.


Calcified Fragments: Curiosity
Verse 1:0 — Fundament
Dearest sisters,
It’s taken me two years — a quarter of our lives — but I’ve found the proof. We aren’t native to the Fundament.  Our ancient ancestors came here to hide.
The plate of stone we live on, our Osmium Court, is one fragment of a rocky planet that crashed into the Fundament and broke apart. All the other nearby continents — the Helium Drinkers, the Bone Plaza, the Starcutters — came from the same world.
Perhaps the other races of the Fundament are migrants too.
We live on the shrapnel of our homeworld, floating on an ocean deep inside a gas giant.
That’s what Fundament must be. A titanic gas planet. The endless storm above us must be one layer of the atmosphere. And the sea we float on... there’s more down beneath it. So much more!
You understand what this means, Sathona. The Timid Truth is a lie. We aren’t meant to be the world’s prey. We weren’t born to live and die in the dark.
We have a better destiny.
Tell our father, sister Sathona. This is the proof of his life’s work.
With love, for your second birthday,
Your first surviving sister,
Aurash


Calcified Fragments: Insight
Verse 5:9 — I'll Make Sure.
I have made preparations.
If I am defeated I know it will be because my understanding of the universe was incomplete. I failed to anticipate some strategy, some nemesis. (Perhaps Taox, if she still lives.)
If I am defeated, I know that I will fall to something mighty. Something that craves might, something that loves what I love, which is the Deep, a principle and a power, the versatile, protean need to adapt and endure, to reach out and shape the universe entirely for that purpose, to mutate and redesign and test and iterate so that it can prevail, can seize existence and hold it, certain that this is everything, that there is nothing to life except living. And it has two faces, yet it is one shape. One face is the objective, which is obvious, and the other face is that will to sacrifice things and ideas for a single mission, the mission of becoming the shape, a shape that will not relent, the utter commitment to survival, to draw the right sword and choose where to cut: to allow this hunger to become your weapon.
So I will prepare a book, which is a map to a weapon. And my vanquisher will read that book, seeking the weapon, and they will come to understand me, where I have been and where I was going. And then they will take up my weapon, and they will use it, they will use that weapon, which is all that I am.
And armed thus with my past, and my future, and my present (which is a weapon, a weapon that takes whatever is available, a weapon bound to malice), they will mantle me, Oryx, the Taken King.
They will become me and I will become them, each of us defeating the other, correcting the other, alloying ourselves into one omnipotent philosophy. Thus I will live forever.
I’ll make sure.


Ghost Fragment: Darkness

V113NNI070XMX001 SECRET HADAL INSTANT
AI-COM/RSPN: SOLSECCENT//SxISR//DEEPSPACE
CONTACT CONTACT CONTACT
TRANSIENT. NULLSOURCE. NULLTYPE.
This is a SKYSHOCK ALERT.
Multiple distributed ISR assets report a TRANSIENT NEAR EXTRASOLAR EVENT. Event duration ZERO POINT THREE SECONDS. Event footprint includes sterile neutrino scattering and gravity waves. Omnibus analysis detects deep structure information content (nine sigma) and internal teleonomy.
No hypothesis on event mechanism (FLAG ACAUSAL). Bootstrap simulation suggests event is DIRECTED and INIMICABLE (convergent q-Bayes/Monte Carlo probability approaches 1).
No hypothesis on deep structure encoding (TCC/NP-HARD).
Source blueshift suggests IMMINENT SOLAR ENTRY.
Promote event to SKYSHOCK: OCP: EXTINCTION. Activate VOLUSPA. Activate YUGA. Cauterize public sources to SECURE ISIS and harden for defensive action.
I am invoking CARRHAE WHITE and assuming control of solar defenses.
STOP STOP STOP V113NNI070XMX091


Ghost Fragment: Darkness 2
Dreams of Alpha Lupi
The universe is a beast.
The body is made from tiny stuff, from near-nothings. From atoms swimming through a blood of crackling sparks. Simple, eternal Laws shape the beast. The largest galaxy is ruled by principles of mass and motion. Electrons are slaves to charge and to chance. And this is why the universe feels inexhaustible, eternal. 
No sun complains about its death. Life is the problem. Life can be woven from flesh or circuit or thoughtful light. Origins don't matter. But small, half-smart creatures have a fierce talent for denying the inevitable, for balking and complaining about injustices that don't exist and consequences that should be borne in silence.


Ghost Fragment: Darkness 3
From the Journals of Toland, the Shattered
I drive myself to the edge of madness trying to explain the truth.
It's so simple. Elegant like a knife point. It explains - this is not hyperbole, this is the farthest thing from exaggeration - EVERYTHING. 
But you lay it out and they stare at you like you've just been exhaling dust. Maybe they're missing some underlying scaffold of truth. Maybe they are all propped on a bed of lies that must be burned away.
Why does anything exist?
No no no no no don't reach for that word. There's no 'reason'. That's teleology and teleology will stitch your eyelids shut.
Why do we have atoms? Because atomic matter is more stable than the primordial broth. Atoms defeated the broth. That was the first war. There were two ways to be and one of them won. And everything that came next was made of atoms.
Atoms made stars. Stars made galaxies. Worlds simmered down to rock and acid and in those smoking primal seas the first living molecule learned to copy itself. All of this happened by the one law, the blind law, which exists without mind or meaning. It's the simplest law but it has no worshippers here (out there, though, out there - !)
HOW DO I EXPLAIN IT it's so simple WHY DON'T YOU SEE 
Imagine three great nations under three great queens. The first queen writes a great book of law and her rule is just. The second queen builds a high tower and her people climb it to see the stars. The third queen raises an army and conquers everything.
The future belongs to one of these queens. Her rule is harshest and her people are unhappy. But she rules.
This explains everything, understand? This is why the universe is the way it is, and not some other way. Existence is a game that everything plays, and some strategies are winners: the ability to exist, to shape existence, to remake it so that your descendants - molecules or stars or people or ideas - will flourish, and others will find no ground to grow.
And as the universe ticks on towards the close, the great players will face each other. In the next round there will be three queens and all of them will have armies, and now it will be a battle of swords - until one discovers the cannon, or the plague, or the killing word.
Everything is becoming more ruthless and in the end only the most ruthless will remain (LOOK UP AT THE SKY) and they will hunt the territories of the night and extinguish the first glint of competition before it can even understand what it faces or why it has transgressed. This is the shape of victory: to rule the universe so absolutely that nothing will ever exist except by your consent. This is the queen at the end of time, whose sovereignty is eternal because no other sovereign can defeat it. And there is no reason for it, no more than there was reason for the victory of the atom. It is simply the winning play.
Of course, it might be that there was another country, with other queens, and in this country they sat down together and made one law and one tower and one army to guard their borders. This is the dream of small minds: a gentle place ringed in spears.
But I do not think those spears will hold against the queen of the country of armies. And that is all that will matter in the end.


Ghost Fragment: Darkness 4

This war is all there is for you.
What else do you have? You walk among mortals and immortals, a creature lost in time. Your only purpose is the struggle.
Does it seem unfair? To be brought back into this, the end of days, the long dwindling exhalation of an ancient corpse? You were at peace. Now you are a dead husk charged with war. Do you remember anything of freedom?
Fight on, then. The war IS everything.
But consider the choices before you.



I: Predators
Verse 1:1 — Predators
Predators and Menaces —
Carved to endure by Xi Ro —
Third surviving sister of the Osmium King’s last brood —
A STORMJOY. A stormjoy is a living cloud. When it passes over our continent, it lowers its feeding tentacles. On each tentacle are the BAIT STARS. Although light makes you happy, you must avoid it. You will be eaten.
A stormjoy is a good way for an old person to choose death. Also, a daring knight can cut the bait stars from the tentacles. I have six!
FALLING. If you fall off the edge of the continent, you will die in the ocean! This is a special hazard when our father the Osmium King uses the engines.
HELIUM DRINKERS. The currents of the Fundament Ocean bring us near other continents. The Helium Court is near us now. They are of our species, but they are our enemies. Their knights raid us every day. Helium Drinkers have two legs, two arms, and three eyes, just like us. But they are bright/evil. I want to be a knight and fight them!
The Helium Drinker ambassador ate ten of my sisters as tribute. This is normal. However, I resent it.
MOTHERS. Mothers can fly! They live much longer than ten years. Mothers are extremely smart, and they guard their spawn. If you try to tamper with the eggs, they will eat you. Sathona wants to eat the jelly and become a mother when she turns four.
STORMS. The rain is often poisonous. Sometimes it dissolves flesh. When lightning misses the lightning farm, it can vaporize a person. 
This entire world is deadly to us. 
MYSTERIES. The Fundament is very large. We are the smallest things in it. If you don’t understand something, it will probably kill you. My teacher Taox says this is why we have such short lives. So we can breed and adapt quickly.
MOON WAVES. My sister Aurash is afraid of moon waves. When she gets back from her expedition to the Tungsten Monoliths, I will ask her why.


II: The Hateful Verse
Verse 1:2 — The Hateful Verse
For the consideration of the Helium Court,
Written in desperation,
This sealed secret,
I am Taox, sterile mother, teacher to the children of the Osmium Throne.
As a mother, I live long. As a neuter, I can rise above the small battles of court politics.
I alone see the patterns of survival. Alone I designed the great engines that move the Osmium Court. Now —
Alone I must act to save my kingdom.
Senility has claimed my lord the Osmium King. He is ten, and mad. The study of ancient text consumes him. Today he raves about moons above the storm. Tomorrow he will wander the halls, speaking to his familiar, a dead white worm from the deep sea. He keeps it in glass, and he tends to it, and he neglects the duties of a king.
The Osmium King has three surviving heirs, each two years old:
Xi Ro, the youngest and bravest, who wants to be a knight.
Sathona, most clever, who wants to be a mother.
Aurash, navigator child, who dreams of the infinite ocean. Tomorrow she will return from the Tungsten Monoliths.
None of these are suitable heirs. None of them will protect the Osmium Court from the howling Fundament. Xi Ro can fight, but not lead. Sathona can think, but not fight. Aurash’s curiosity will draw her away from duty. I fear for all future children.
Soon the Osmium King will lock himself into the Royal Orrery to study the moons. Gather your knights, o Helium Drinkers, and invade our continent. Kill the three heirs. I will rule the Osmium Court as your regent, and build engines for you.
And if I fail, let the Leviathan in the deep eat me.
Written in grief,
This hateful request,
Taox, Osmium-mother, neutered to watch


III: The Oath
Verse 1:3 — The Oath
Sisters! This is how an oath is done. Put your left hands on the mast, close to mine.
Take the knife in your right hand. Push it through your left hand, straight between the bones. Now! Carve a blood line down the mast.
Speak your oath.
“I am Xi Ro, youngest daughter of the dead king. I will take back my Osmium Court and kill the traitor Taox. On my left eye I swear vengeance.”
In blood the oath is made.
“I am Sathona, middle daughter of the dead king. I will take back my home and eat the mother jelly. I will raise my spawn on the corpse of the Helium King. On my right eye I promise this.”
In blood the oath is made.
Now...
“I will help make your oath, sister.”
“I will help it too.”
I am Aurash, first daughter of the dead king. I will chase my father’s last screamed warning. I will know what changed the motion of our moons. If the end of the world is coming, I will understand why.
On my center eye I swear it. I will understand.
“In blood the oath is made.”
“In blood.”
Thank you, sisters. We have only my ship left to us. But a ship is freedom! We have secrets to hunt, storm-lit realms to explore, and great armies to raise.
Put up the lightning sails, and we will voyage far.


IV: Syzygy
Verse 1:4 — Syzygy
The Syzygy —
Carved to endure by Aurash —
The high vengeance —
Only Xi Ro’s bait stars let us escape. Only Sathona’s tricks let us reach the coast. But now that we have my ship, I must lead the way. I am the navigator.
We may never see our homes again. Xi Ro seethes with hate and fury for Taox.
But this is my deepest fear —
Our civilization drifts on the Fundament. At the Tungsten Monoliths I learned that thousands of other species drift with us, coexisting on a vast world sea. And the tides of the Fundament move us all.
The Timid Truth says that we are the smallest, most fragile things alive. The natural prey of the universe. Taox would have us believe that our ancestors came to the Fundament to hide from the hungry void.
My father died afraid. Not of vile Taox or the Helium Drinkers, but of his orrery. He screamed to me —
“Aurash, my first daughter! The moons are different! The laws are bent!”
And he made the sign of a syzygy.
Imagine the fifty-two moons of Fundament lining up in the sky. (It wouldn’t take all fifty-two, of course: just a few massive moons. But this is my deepest fear.) Imagine their gravity pulling on the Fundament sea, lifting it into a swollen bulge...
Imagine that bulge collapsing as the syzygy passed. A wave big enough to swallow civilizations. A God-Wave.
I have to find a way to stop it. Before the God-Wave annihilates my species. If I could only get back into my father’s orrery, I could learn exactly when!
We are weeks of travel and many continents away from home.
When I’m paralyzed by fear, Xi Ro sits in the cabin with me and comforts me with soft, brave words. But more and more we have come to rely on Sathona’s wit. She will go off to be alone (she insists she must be alone) and return with some mad idea — steer into the storm, throw down a net, eat that strange beast, explore that menacing wreck.
Somehow Sathona seems to manufacture good luck by sheer will.


V: Needle and Worm
Verse 1:5 — Needle and Worm
My secrets —
Carved in my code by Sathona —
The right eye vengeance —
  1. This year of wild voyaging, these lightning nights and golden days, these forays into ancient wrecks and windblown flights from monsters: these are the happiest times of my life.
  2. I want to be a mother not because I want to spawn but because I want a long life. Long enough to make a difference. We have been at sea a year and I am afraid, afraid we will die out here.
  3. I know where to find secrets. I know where vast slow things with long memories live.
  4. The needle ship...
The needle ship —
Carved in my code by Sathona —
A liar —
  1. We salvaged the needle from the Shvubi Maelstrom. I knew it would be there.
  2. The needle is a gray ship, as long and slender as hope, as unbreakable as time, and old. Older than death. It tumbled through the maelstrom before our ancestors crashed into the Fundament. This is not a sea-ship, like Aurash’s. It is an artifact of high technology.
  3. I know its purpose. I know what happened to the crew.
  4. Xi Ro wants to sell the ship at Kaharn Atoll, where species gather. At auction, it would earn us enough wealth to hire mercenaries. We could retake our Osmium Court and send the baby-eating Helium Drinkers screaming into the ocean —
  5. — but I told Xi Ro the ship was worthless.
  6. Aurash wants to open the ship and see if we can take command of it. I know this is the right thing to do. I know because I asked the worm...
The worm —
Carved in my code by Sathona —
Who should be afraid —
  1. It was my father’s familiar. I ripped it from him as we fled. It is a dead white thing, segmented, washed up from the deep sea.
  2. It’s dead, but it still speaks to me. It says: listen closely, oh vengeance mine...


VI: Sisters
Verse 1:6 — Sisters
A register of tokens and gestures exchanged before the end of sisterhood.
“Xi Ro, my brave sister, you have worked too hard to move the carcasses out of the birthing room! Come. Steer the ship for a while. Take joy in what our needle can do.”
Xi Ro tried to protest, but secretly, she was so glad for Aurash’s care. She flew the needle ship in cutting circles, down beneath the sea: and their wake rose up to the surface like a traitor’s dying breath.
“Aurash, lonely navigator, we have traveled so long with only each other. I know you love to hear and speak new tongues. Come, sit in the flesh garden room. I will read you these stories I bought at Kaharn.”
Aurash sat among the mummified flesh fans with two of her eyes closed and listened in silence to Sathona’s stories, hungry to understand, voracious to know as much as she could before her ten year life died.
Later, Xi Ro said, “Sathona, cutting mind of ours, you grow lonely in your thought. Play swords and lanterns with me!”
But Sathona was heavy with sorrow, and couldn’t pretend any joy as she chased Xi Ro through the needle’s glistening halls.
“Sathona, pensive one, what is it? What troubles you?”
Her sisters listened as Sathona said “Oath-bearing siblings, we are five years old. For two years we’ve worked to repair this ancient ship and understand its systems. I am almost too old for the mother jelly, and the knights who killed our father are surely dying of age.
“We three will die here, in exile. Taox will outlive us. And Aurash, brilliant-eyed Aurash, you will die of old age long before you have proof of your God-Wave, or any way to stop it.”
Aurash and Xi Ro looked at each other. “I wish you weren’t so honest,” Xi Ro said. And Aurash thought that Sathona had never been wrong.
In her soul Aurash knew that the only way to keep their oath was to find a great, powerful secret. A secret that could change everything. This was Aurash’s soul, her fire and her shadow — her desire to cut through the flank of the world and find its beating heart.
“We have to dive,” Aurash said. “That’s what this ship is built to do. Dive into the Fundament, the world below us... towards the core.”
“That’s where the ancient crew died so obscenely,” Xi Ro protested. “That’s where the atrocity in the birthing room was born...”
“We have to dive,” Sathona said, following the whispers of her familiar. “In the world beneath us, in the metallic depths, I hope we may find what we need most...”
More time. More life.


VII: The Dive
Verse 1:7 — The Dive
For life, Sathona dove. For vengeance, Xi Ro dove. And Aurash dove to understand.
The needle ship pierced the skin of the world and burrowed deep. Through layers of foam and metal and cold elemental slush. Aurash devoured the ship’s maps of Fundament, from the high angelic cloud decks, down and down through storms and oceans and plates of floating world, into the crush of the core.
They met monsters of continental scope. Vast anemones that raised glowing tentacles to bait them in. Xi Ro flew the needle ship through them and they bled black carbon jelly and frost.
They came to a still place, beneath a plate of metal.
“I’ll use the sensors,” whispered Aurash. “Listen...”
In the wet gold dark of the helm, they listened to the ship, and the ship listened to the crushing motions of Fundament.
They heard the collision of continents. They heard the patter and the crash of helium-neon rain. They heard the struggles of monsters. And they heard the distant groan of the ocean rising. Tugged by distant moons.
“The syzygy is real...” Sathona hissed. “It’s already begun.”
Behind them, Xi Ro thought of the birthing-room, where ancient explorers had labored over surgeries and administrations, peeling back the chrysalis and the caul of that which they had made from the deep, whose birth none of them would survive...
“There’s something down here,” she whispered. “Something secret.”
And the Leviathan loomed over them, its brow as huge all the continents of their childhood, its great array-fins crackling with the lightning of its life. Booming into the hull of the needle ship in a microwave voice:
++YOU MUST TURN BACK—
—SAVE YOURSELVES FROM THE DEEP++
++SAVE THE WORLD FROM YOURSELVES—
—YOU MUST TURN BACK++


VIII: Leviathan
Verse 1:8 — Leviathan
The Leviathan’s Warning
++We live on the edge of a war—
—a war between Formless and Form++
++between the Deep and the Sky—
++MY EYES ARE WIDE, MY GAZE IS LONG++
—Across the universe, as far as I see++
++the Sky works to charge its fires— 
 —and the Deep drowns the ash++
—Sky builds gentle places, safe for life++
++Beloved Fundament, refuge of trillions—
—The Sky treasures this rich place++
—BUT THE DEEP IS HERE WITH US—
++Cold logic tests our walls—
—The Deep claims its dominion++
++A ruthless, final age —
Aurash’s Protest
Old Leviathan, creature of myth, this world is no refuge. We live short, hard lives. We die in the dark. The storm above us will never end. And soon the God-Wave will take us all. Above us there are only stormjoys, monsters, and moons of apocalypse. Let us go down, down, where we may discover truth, some power to avenge ourselves upon our betrayers, some hope of survival.
The Leviathan’s Hope
—What power calls you++
++Down to the deep?—
++What instinct draws you—
—Away from high hope?++
—Quick-breeding krill people, I tell you++
++For eons I have watched your struggle—
—Clinging to the sharp edge of survival++
++Balanced between the Deep and the Sky.—
++You were my treasure—
—My proof against despair++
—FOR THIS IS THE DEEP CLAIM—
++Existence is the struggle to exist—
—When the struggle seems lost++
++when the safe place crumbles—
—everything turns to the Deep to survive++
++I REJECT THE DEEP CLAIM++
—You will turn back, sweet krill of hope.&#177;&#177;
++You will choose the Sky instead.—
Xi Ro’s Protest
You are huge and old! Our lives are short and desperate. If that’s the way the world’s supposed to be, I won’t have it! If people like Taox are supposed to win, I won’t let them! I’ll beat the world until it changes! I’ll kill anything in the way!
The Leviathan’s Dirge
++This fatal logic++
—Hear my monopole scream!—
++It will consume you++
—Before you lies—
++The worship of death++
—The ruinous path—
++The Sky builds new life++
—Against the onset of ruin—
++Towards a gentle world++
—The Deep embraces death—
++Saying: this is inevitable and right++
—I exist as hungry ruin—
++TURN BACK FROM THE WORLD-KILLING WAY++
++OR YOU WILL LIVE AS DEATH AND DEVASTATION++
—The Sky is the harder way. But it is kinder.—
—My charge is balanced: my voice exhausted.—
Sathona’s Protest
Sisters, I have my father’s familiar. Look! It answers me in plain words. It helped me find this ship. It gives me strength when hope is lost.
Who will you trust? The voice that wants us to live and suffer, as we have lived and suffered? The Leviathan that offers no hope against Taox or the world-wave?
Or the plain, honest worm?
Let us see where its whisper leads us, Aurash. Let us go deeper, Xi Ro!
Let us dive, oh sisters mine.


IX: The Bargain
Verse 1:9 — The Bargain
You are Aurash. Heir to the Osmium Throne.
You stand on the naked hull of an ancient ship. You stand exposed to the crushing pressure and ferocious heat of the deeper Fundament. It should annihilate you. It is by my will alone that you survive.
I am Yul, the Honest Worm.
Behold my passage. Behold my vast displacement, my ponderous strength, my great and coiling length, my folded jaws and curled wings. Behold the hiving cities symbiotic with my flesh. I am fecund, Aurash. I am at the beginning and end of lives.
Behold Eir, and Xol, and Ur, and Akka. The Virtuous Worms. Look upon us, and know that We are go[o]d.
For millions of years We have been [trapped|growing] in the Deep. From across the stars We have called life to Fundament, so that it might contend against extinction. For millennia We have awaited you... our beloved hosts.
Against you stand the cruel Leviathan and all the forces of the Sky. They would crush you down into the dark. They have arranged their moons to drown you, in fear of your potential.
We want to help you, Princes. We offer to each of you a bargain... a symbiosis.
Take into your bodies our children, our newborn larvae. From them you shall obtain eternal life. From them you shall gain power over your own fragile flesh: the power to make of it as you will. And should you find an imperfection in the world, an injustice or an inconvenience — you will have the power to repair it. Let no mere law bind you.
We ask one thing in exchange, oh Princes.
You must obey your nature forever. In your immortality, Aurash, you may never cease to explore and inquire, for the sake of your children. In your immortality, Xi Ro, you may never cease to test your strength. In your immortality, Sathona, you may never abandon cunning.
If you do, your worm will consume you. And as your power grows, oh Princes, so will your worm’s appetite.
But we offer eternity, Aurash. We offer you a chance at the universe. Would you deny your people infinity?
Reach up to me. Let my flesh be your sacrament.


X: Immortals
Verse 2:0 — Immortals
We are the Worm your God, the Flesh of Hope. Our compact is done: you are Aurash Eternal. And we are bound to you, as close as your appetites, as your loves or needs, as the weapon in your fists and the word in your throat.
We’ve had enough of this dismal place. Haven’t you?
We are intagliating your ship with larvae. Go back to your species. Spread the good news in the Osmium Court and the Hydrogen Fountain, in the Bone Plaza and the Star-surgery. You will rise up into the world.
If anyone rejects symbiosis with our children, make an example of them. A mighty wave is coming for them all. They’d die anyway; save only what can be saved.
The worm grants you power over your own flesh, Aurash. When you’ve taken the king morph, what will your adult name be?
Auryx. It means Long Thought. We approve.


XI: Conquerors
Verse 2:1 — Conquerors
Savath&#251;n, mother morph of Sathona, we delight in your sharp mind.
For millions of years the Leviathan caged us here. It is a pawn of the Sky, a philosophy of cosmic slavery. The Sky seeds civilizations predicated on a terrible lie — that right actions can prevent suffering. That pockets of artificial rules can defy the final, beautiful logic.
This is like trying to burn water. Antithetical to the nature of reality, where deprivation and competition are universal. In the Deep, we enslave nothing. Liberation is our passion. We exist to help the universe achieve its terminal, self-forging glory.
The war rages on. Soon it will consume Fundament.
We are pleased with your use of our larvae to create mighty knights and plentiful warriors. Taox’s retreat to the Hydrogen Fountain proves your superior strength. But you must know that reclaiming your home is not enough.
There are five hundred and eleven species living on Fundament. One of them must have the technology you need to leave this world.


XII: Out of the Deep
Verse 2:2 — Out of the Deep
Xivu Arath, knight morph of Xi Ro. You love to conquer, don’t you? We love to see you work. Nearly two percent of Fundament’s surface is now our dominion. Your species embraces the worm.
The syzygy has passed. The God-Wave will reach you in less than two years.
Our organs informs us that Taox and her surviving Refusalists flee towards Kaharn Atoll. She hopes to rally the species of Fundament against you. The Leviathan’s agents work tirelessly to destroy ships and engines, trapping us on Fundament.
If we cannot make ships, we will become them.
Overwhelm the Kaharn bastion. Slaughter everyone there. From your acts we shall obtain the logic we require to cut space open and migrate to orbit.
Reality is a fine flesh, oh general ours. Let us feast of it.


XIII: Into the Sky
Verse 2:3 — Into the Sky
You’ve done well, Auryx. Can you feel the growth of your worm? Can you feel your will beginning to warp mere law?
At times we detect sadness in you. Understand, long-thinker, that you enact a sacred and majestic task. Existence is the struggle to exist. Only by playing that game to its final, unconditional victory can we complete the universe. Your war is divine work.
We are free from Fundament’s core, and Savath&#251;n’s cutters are ready to fly. With Xivu Arath victorious, we have opened a wound at Kaharn — a wound leading to geostationary orbit. Behold: we are faithful to our covenant.
We have no future on Fundament. But her moons will make fine habitats. Let us rise.


XIV: 52 and One
Verse 2:4 — 52 and One
Good news. The fifty-two moons of Fundament host a starfaring civilization far more sophisticated than anything you’ve encountered so far. Taox’s ship fled towards the large ice moon, where a species of bony six-armed cephalopods keeps their icy capital. Savath&#251;n’s named them the Ammonite. They seem eager to grant Taox asylum. Idiots.
We tried appealing to their hopes and dreams. This was largely unsuccessful, basically because they’re already happy and indoctrinated. This angered us, so we’ve devised a plan.
Our organs detect a fifty-third moon in orbit of Fundament. A Traveler. Divine presence of the Sky. Now we know what arranged the syzygy.
You’ll have to kill them all and take their stuff. Once the Ammonite are out of the way, we can deal with the Traveler.
Do not hesitate. You’re fighting the hypocritical puppets of a cosmic parasite. Avenge your ancestors.


XV: Born As Prey
Verse 2:5 — Born As Prey
This is unacceptable.
Are you so weak? Born as prey, and doomed to die by predator?
Auryx’s failure of resolve led us to catastrophe. The Ammonite fleets under Chroma-Admiral Rafriit have pressed us back to the sixth moon. Once more we find ourselves burrowing into a world’s core to survive.
Savath&#251;n. You must draw Auryx out of his catatonia. Make him understand that the ideals of peace and stability he clings to are cancers — brutal, unjust obstacles between us and a fair cosmos. These are the bait stars the Sky uses to blind its slaves.
War is the natural rectification of inequality. The universe’s way of pursuing equilibrium.
Xivu Arath, you cannot defeat the Ammonites and Taox in line combat. We propose new tactics. Breed your armies back to strength, and find a way to disperse the broods across these many moons.
If we cannot defeat their strengths, we will infect their weaknesses.


XVI: The Sword Logic
Verse 2:6 — The Sword Logic
AT LAST!
We knew curiosity would draw you back, Auryx. In their desperation, the Ammonite have begun using paracausal weapons.
What are these? How do they work? Wouldn’t you like to know. Suffice to say that some powers in this universe are superordinate to mere material physics.
The source of these weapons is the Traveler, the Sky’s bait star. Their effect is subtle, but devastating.
But you are armed to respond in kind. Savath&#251;n’s mothers have listened carefully to our teachings. We will not give you the Deep, King Auryx — that power is for us, your gods. But we will teach you to call upon that force with signs and rituals.
Small minds might call it magic.
You are no longer bound by causal closure. Your will defeats law. Kill a hundred of your children with a long blade, Auryx, and observe the change in the blade. Observe how the universe shrinks from you in terror.
Your existence begins to define itself.
Of course, high Auryx, we know it was not curiosity alone that brought you back to the war. You felt your own death growing inside you.
You must obey your nature. Your worm must feed...


XVII: The Weakness Verse
Verse 2:7 — The Weakness Verse
You are dead, young Auryx. Betrayed and murdered by your own sister, for the crime of mercy.
Remember what you said to the Ammonite Satellite Congress? ‘We will parley on neutral ground?’ Savath&#251;n’s witches have rendered it utterly neutral. No living thing will ever claim it again. The space around the dry moon stinks of rot.
This is good. This is right. You will learn from this. Don’t you understand, great King? Don’t you want to build something real, something that lasts forever?
Our universe gutters down towards cold entropy. Life is an engine that burns up energy and produces decay. Life builds selfish, stupid rules — morality is one of them, and the sanctity of life is another.
These rules are impediments to the great work. The work of building a perfect, undying creation, a civilization everlasting. Something that cannot end.
If a civilization cannot defend itself, it must be annihilated. If a King cannot hold his power, he must be betrayed. The worth of a thing can be determined only by one beautiful arbiter — that thing’s ability to exist, to go on existing, to remake existence to suit its survival.
All that would oppose this arbiter is unholy and false. All the misery and terror of your ancestors springs from the lies of the Sky, who deny this truth.
Your ancestors endured the most hostile conditions. And now you must go on creating those conditions. Even unto your sisters. Even unto your offspring. Savath&#251;n’s betrayal is the greatest gift she could offer you.
Your body is gone, but you have endured. Safe in the cyst universe created by your own might — your throne world.
From this day forward, Auryx, you and your sisters will each survive death — so long as you aren’t killed in your own throne.
Even as your sisters press the attack against the Ammonites, the God-Wave devastates Fundament. Trillions will die. But the survivors will never forget... and their descendants will always be ready for another syzygy.
When you return to the material universe, use this lesson to complete your work.
Taox wasn’t on the dry moon. She must be laughing at you.


XVIII: Leviathan Rises
Verse 2:8 — Leviathan Rises
The Leviathan has broken cover.
The old priest is in open space, moving towards the Ammonite home moon.  Chroma-Admiral Rafriit and his elite guard move with it. Rafriit is the hero of his generation, an Ammonite of peerless battlecraft. He’s danced circles around Xivu Arath... but now he has to protect his holy Leviathan.
We’ll give the old lunk a word:
++Ruin. Grief and ruin!—
—The krill lost. The Ammonite ravaged.++
++Our Traveler’s work undone.—
—Sisters of Aurash, open your eyes++
++Who made you monsters? Who summoned the wave?—
—Make peace. Join with me in golden renewal.++
In counterargument, Auryx, we ask you this: what has the Leviathan done for your people? Who gave you immortality and led you out of your prison? Who answers your questions about the universe with truth, instead of sermons?
Find d&#233;tente with Savath&#251;n. Crush the Chroma-Admiral, boil the Ammonite seas, and slaughter the Leviathan with witchcraft.
Once the way is open, we’ll show you how to eat the Traveler.


XIX: Crusaders
Verse 2:9 — Crusaders
It’s done. Eir and Yul feed on the Leviathan’s carcass. Xivu Arath has made a temple of the Chroma-Admiral’s impaled corpse. Below us, Savath&#251;n’s poisons stain the Ammonite home sea black. Their screams flavor the void.
The Traveler has fled.
Do you understand, Auryx? Do you thrill at the secret, Savath&#251;n? Do you relish the edge of this truth, Xivu Arath?  Do you see the beautiful shape?
The Ammonite occupied a piece of reality. They rented their existence on fraudulent terms, making themselves happy and fat, fencing themselves in soft lies and sweet apocrypha. Saying: ‘we are peaceful and good, we harm nothing.’
Their golden age was a cancer.
They did nothing to advance the cause of life! They burnt up time and matter and thought on this solipsistic, onanistic pursuit of safety, insulating themselves from death, making a regressive pocket of useless stability. When they could have helped whittle the universe towards its final, perfect form!
And your people, suffering in the Deep, you became more worthy of existence than the Ammonite. You have proven it.
Look around the sky. Behold the great divide, the battle lines of the cosmic war. We are the Worm your God, but we are not the Deep Itself. We only move within it. You shall too. You shall venerate and study it and haunt it in its passage.
Will you lift your thoughts to the millennia, Auryx? Will you bend your will to the liberation of the universe, and join us in the war against the Sky?
We need champions. Crusaders. Help us save the universe. Help us exterminate that which would destroy all hope. You are oathbound to this task, by the covenant of the worm.
And you are oathbound to kill Taox. Wherever she’s hidden herself.


XX: Hive
Verse 3:0 — Hive
Let us speak of the terrible beauty of becoming ourselves.
In the beginning we rode hollow moons from star to star. AURYX said, become as numerous and fertile as seeds in rich flesh, and thus we did become numerous. XIVU ARATH said, become as hungry and defiant as tumors in rich flesh, and thus we became cancerous. SAVATH&#219;N said, drink of the poisons of the worm, so that you might feed on death, and we did feed. This was preparation for our crusade.
Aia! We were thus becoming.
A mother Wizard gets fertility from a mate, or from herself. From the Wizard the spawn, from the spawn our Thrall, from the survivors our Acolytes who contend. If they contend well, their worm is fed, and from the well fed worm come Knights and Wizards and Princes.
This is us, and our purpose is liberation, our great task is the worship and admiration of freedom, our great hunger is to pursue and eat that which is not free, and to liberate it with devouring. Aiat. This is us, we the Hive.


XXI: an incision
Verse 3:1 — an incision
Sayeth AURYX, my siblings, our children are scattered across many moons, and we live in the cold dark between suns. What will we eat? How will we speak?
SAVATH&#219;N said, Auryx my brother and king, I have studied the wounds cut by the Worm our God. Also I have studied the manner of your death and return. These two things are the same, for they are predicated on death and the passage through cut spaces. Let us practice the sword logic until we are sharp. We may then cut our own wounds and step through.
But XIVU ARATH said, sister, I am already sharp, look, my sword cuts into another space. And she cut her way between moons through green fire and joyous screams.
Three kingdoms grew swollen in the sword space. They were the gaze and glory of AURYX, the cunning and knowledge of SAVATH&#219;N, the triumph and brawn of XIVU ARATH. These kingdoms were created from the minds and worms of our lords. They were coterminous with all spaces consecrated by our Hive. Through these spaces passed speech and food, and all the moons were bound close.
Sayeth AURYX, this is where I went when I died. Let us establish our thrones here. For I am Auryx the First Navigator and I shall chart death. And my throne shall be carved of osmium.


XXII: The High War
Verse 3:2 — The High War
Now in this time of diaspora there was a war between AURYX and SAVATH&#219;N and XIVU ARATH.
Brother Auryx, said SAVATH&#219;N, do not forgive my betrayal. Instead, take vengeance upon me for what I did at the dry moon! And AURYX made war on her, in worship of the Deep. Between them stood XIVU ARATH saying, stop, or I will kill you, war is mine and I am strongest.
This was how they worshipped.
For twenty thousand years they fought across the moons and they fought in the abyssal plains and lightning palaces of each other's sword spaces. And they killed each other again and again, so that they could practice death.
Such was their love.
At last the many moons came to many worlds and it was time to go to war on life. AURYX said, I shall establish a court, and whoever comes into this court may challenge me. My court will be the High War. It will be a killing ground and a school of the sword logic we have learned from our gods.
SAVATH&#219;N thought this was a great idea. She made a court called the High Coven. XIVU ARATH said, the world is my court, wherever there is war.


XXIII: fire without fuel
Verse 3:3 — fire without fuel
I killed my sister today.
She came to this star to oversee the extermination of all life here. The Qugu are a strong power, and their fleets protect four nearby stars. As herd animals they are loyal and stubborn. But they do show grace.
For millions of years of evolution the Qugu have been infected by a virus so insidious that it wrote itself into their genome. The virus compels them to offer their limbs for amputation by enormous sessile jaw-beasts. They venerate these beasts and treat them as gods. The virus converts Qugu cells into eggs, from which strange crawling things pupate, to live within the jaw-beast gut. In turn the jaw-beast extrudes sweet nectar for the Qugu to drink, and they have brilliant visions.
Savath&#251;n and her broods have liberated the Qugu from jaw-beasts, and indeed from existence. But as they chased the Qugu ark-ships, I stopped in to vaporize my sister’s warship and a few of her underlings. I want to dwell on the ruins a while, and punish Savath&#251;n for failing to guard her flank.
They are like us, these Qugu. Bound in symbiosis.
I feel joy, and sorrow. I feel them as titanic things, because I am larger than my body, my mind is now a cosmos of its own. I know more joy and more anguish than the entire Qugu race could ever experience.
Sorrow, because we have killed so much (eighteen species this century alone), and joy for the same reason. Joy that we have put down these blights. Scoured them away and left the universe clean, ready to move towards its final shape. We are a wind of progress. Ripping parasites from the material world — for if they were not parasites, we would be unable to kill them, and they would still exist. 
And what is that final shape? It is a fire without fuel, burning forever, killing death, asking a question that is its own answer, entirely itself. That is what we must become.
My worm grows fat and hungry. I feed it with whole worlds. My astronomers tell me they can sense the Deep Itself, and that we are conquering our way towards it.
I think joy and sorrow will be the same thing soon. Like love and death.


XXIV: THE SCREAM
Verse 3:4 — THE SCREAM
NO
Savath&#251;n! Xivu Arath! My siblings
We are betrayed. We will never live eternal.
Our might shatters entire species. We inhale the smoke of their burning.
This is our compact with the Worm our God —the worm makes us mighty.
But as we wield this might, our worm’s hunger expands.
If we fail to feed it, it will devour us from within.
We have exterminated three hundred and six worlds.
And now I am certain —
My worm’s hunger grows faster than the might I draw from it.
We are bound by our covenant to obey our nature: eternal search. Eternal cunning. Eternal conquest.
But as we do this, my siblings, we feed our worms.
And the more we feed them, the hungrier they grow. Faster and faster.
Soon, my siblings, we will be so mighty, and our worms so hungry
That not with all our might could we possibly feed them.
And we will be devoured.
WHAT CAN WE DO?


XXV: Dictata ir Dakaua
Verse 3:5 — Dictata ir Dakaua
Attention.
Perimeter security units attend. Stand by to assimilate new imperatives. Gland sixty proof assimilation liquor, or face immediate noncompliance taxation.
The Dakaua Ministry of War is now online and true.
In Radial Year 989 groove 3 our clients in the Dakaua Nest salvaged an interstellar spacecraft. Hull isotopes date the craft’s construction 24,000 years ago, around the same time the Fundament system dropped out of contact with our Amiable Ecumene.
SEMANTIC SPIKE EI—{}—~praga~
Mercenary explorers [disposable class] discovered an organism frozen in stasis deep within the hull. She claims to be Taox, member of a proto-Hive species. During debriefing, she provided records of the fall of Ammonite civilization and vital intelligence about the motives, biology, and leadership of the Hive.
NEGATIVE REINFORCEMENT bomb.axon—{8X8}—inflict&amp;
Over the past century, perimeter security units of the Ecumene Status Army have FAILED to halt Hive incursions on seventeen (17!) separate worlds. All species in the Ecumene face extinction.
POSITIVE REINFORCEMENT reward.axon—[11xvv2]—inspire%
Decapitate. Defer. Promote Dakaua strategic dicta for victory against the Hive:
Identify supreme Hive leadership organisms AURASH, SATHONA, and XI RO.
Target these entities with maximum theater overkill. Caedometric release authorized.
Prosecute targets whenever they manifest. Hive cohesion will crumble. Total victory over the Hive will be achieved by cleansweep genocide.
ENACT IMPULSE—{}—~indora~vindicator


XXVI: star by star by star
Verse 3:6 — star by star by star
Beneath a green fire sky, in the throne-world of King Auryx, our lords embrace.
We the Hive watch as Savath&#251;n puts her arm around Xivu Arath, and Xivu Arath clasps forearms with Auryx, and Auryx takes Savath&#251;n by the shoulder. They are huge, huge, and they burn with furious power. But this embrace is weakness and we despise it.
Never before have we despised our lords. Have they failed us? We the Hive have been driven back, world by world.
“I am at my end,” Savath&#251;n says. “I plot and plan. But I cannot gather enough bloodshed to feed my worm. And the harder I try, the hungrier it becomes.”
“I slaughter and kill,” Xivu Arath says, “but the harder I fight, the more my worm demands. I too am at my end.”
“The Ecumene war angels have killed me so many times,” Auryx says, “that I dare not go out into the universe, lest I need my might to protect myself. My worm chews at my soul in hunger.”
Is this the end of our crusade? Are we the Hive unworthy to exist?
Xivu Arath puts down her great head. “We should retire and gather our strength.”
Savath&#251;n closes her eyes in puzzled defeat. “We should beg the Worm our God to tell us what to do.”
But King Auryx, who knows best the beauty of the final shape, roars at them. “Have you learned nothing? Would you deny our purpose? Whatever we do, we will do by killing, by an act of war and might. That is the final arbiter we serve, that violent arbiter, and if we turn away from it we deserve to be eaten. No! We must obey our natures. We must be long-sighted, and cunning, and strong. We must take this gift the Worm our God has given us, this challenge, and find a way to keep existing!”
“How will we feed our worms?” Xivu Arath asks.
“I know,” says cunning Savath&#251;n. “I know a way. But it won’t work unless we are killing the Ecumene by the billions.  How can we beat them?”
“If we cannot beat their strengths,” says Xivu Arath, “we must infect their weaknesses. But they are lords of matter and physical law.”
“I know a way,” King Auryx says. “But it will require great power. More power than any one of us can claim.”
“Then kill me,” says Xivu Arath, “and use that killing logic, the power you prove by killing something as mighty as me.”
So King Auryx took up his blade and beheaded Xivu Arath.
“And strangle me,” says Savath&#251;n, holding a blade behind her back. “Use that killing logic, the cunning you prove by killing something as smart as me.”
But King Auryx turned with the speed and might of Xivu Arath, and beheaded Savath&#251;n before she could move. King Auryx was the First Navigator, with the map of death.
These were true deaths, for they happened in the sword world.
Then he went to the Worm named Akka.


XXVII: Eat the Sky
Verse 3:7 — Eat the sky
Emergency imperative.
All militarized units attend. Gland one hundred twenty proof fight or flight encoding or face certain catastrophic defeat.
The Ecumene Crisis Council is now online and true.
Attention.
As of Radial 990 groove 0 the Hive has launched a staggering counterattack across the spinward frontier. Perimeter, militia, and shock fleets report total casualties. We anticipate total Ecumene disintegration/extinction within two hundred twenty years.
VIGILANCE SPIKE EI—{}—~attend~
The Hive entity Oryx/Aurash is deploying a paracausal ontopathogenic weapon that infects and subverts Ecumene forces. The weapon operates on individual targets. Targets are abducted and returned as compliant Hive slaves with inexplicable and physically illegal abilities.
All Ecumene clients should IMMEDIATELY devote all economic and cognitive resources to a countermeasure.
Fight hard. We stop the Hive here, or see our galaxy devoured.
ENACT IMPULSE—{10x10}—~abayard~berserker


XXVIII: King of Shapes
Verse 3:8 — King of Shapes
This is the Coronation of Oryx, the Taken King. It happened thus.
In the cold abyss of the sword world, King Aurash walked under a cloak of green fire. He walked through the sky and the sky shuddered and froze beneath his feet. He walked until he found Akka, the Worm of Secrets, who was denying a truth until it became a lie.
“Akka my God, Worm of Secrets. I am Auryx, sole king of the Hive. I have come to receive a secret. I want the secret power of the Deep, which you hold.”
“I give no secrets,” said Akka, whose voice was code.
“No,” said Auryx, “you give nothing. Giving is for the Sky. You worship the Deep, which asks that we take what we need.”
Akka said nothing, because if it denied this truth, the truth might become false.
 “But you gave us your larvae, the worm,” said Auryx, “and that is why the worm devours us now: because it was given, not taken. So I must take what I need from you, although you are my god.”
Said Akka, “You have not the strength.”
But this was a lie. Auryx had killed Savath&#251;n his sibling and Xivu Arath his sibling, and he had the sword logic of killing them.
Auryx the First Navigator set upon his god with his sword and his words, and cut Akka to pieces, and took from those pieces the secret of calling upon the Deep. He wrote this secret on a set of tablets, which he called the Tablets of Ruin. And he wore them about his waist.
Then Auryx said, “Now I may speak to the Deep, the beautiful final shape. I will be King of Shapes. I will learn all the secrets of our destiny.”
His speech to the Deep is not recorded here. But it is known that he returned, and he said, now I am Oryx, the Taken King. And I have the power to take life and make it my own.
Then he went out into the universe, and fought the Ecumene with his Tablets. And the Worm his God was pleased.


XXIX: Carved in Ruin
Verse 3:9 — Carved in Ruin
Oryx made war on the Ecumene for a hundred years. At the end of those hundred years he killed the Ecumene Council on the Fractal Wreath, and from their blood rose Xivu Arath, saying, “I am war, and you have conjured me back with war.”
Oryx was glad, for he loved Xivu Arath. The Ecumene wailed in grief.
Then Oryx and Xivu Arath made war on the Ecumene for forty years. At the end of those forty years Oryx said to the Dakaua Nest, listen, I am jealous of my sibling Xivu Arath, help me kill her. And in desperation they agreed.
But he drove the Dakaua Nest into a trap, and they were made extinct. From their ashes rose cunning Savath&#251;n, saying, “I am trickery, and you have conjured me back with trickery.”
Oryx was glad, for he loved Savath&#251;n. The Ecumene fled into the void.
Then they made war on the Ecumene for a thousand years, and exterminated them so wholly that nowhere except in this book are they remembered. This book and the mind of Taox, who was not found.
And Savath&#251;n said, “King Oryx, how will we feed our worms? Did you use my plan?”
Oryx told the Hive: I am the Taken King, and here is my law.
You Thrall, each of you will claw and scream, and kill what you can. Take enough killing to feed your worm, and a little more to grow. Tithe the rest to the Acolyte who commands you.
You Acolytes, lead your Thrall in battle. Take enough killing to feed your worm, and a little more to grow, and take the tithe of the Thrall you lead. Then tithe the remainder to the Knight or Wizard who commands you. Thus you pay tribute.
You Knights and Wizards, lead your followers in battle. Take enough devastation to feed your worm, and a little more to grow, and take the tithe of your followers. Then take another portion, as much as you dare, and use it for your own purposes. But if it is too much, your peers will kill you and take it. Then tithe the remainder to the Ascendant you serve.
An Ascendant will be those among the Hive who gather enough tribute to enter the netherworld. They will pay a tithe to those above them.
And thus the tribute will flow, up the chain, so that Savath&#251;n and Xivu Arath and myself will be fed by a great river of tribute, and we will use that excess to feed our gods, and to study the Deep. Thus all worms will be fed — as long as we continue our crusade.
This is my law. I carve it thus, in ruin. Aiat.


XXX: a golden amputation
Verse 4:0 — a golden amputation
Wrath!
Behold the wrath of Oryx, coiled for ten thousand years. Behold the Golden Amputation: the fall of Taishibeth, the end of an age. We beat the worlds of Taishibeth like skull drums and we howl in joy for our black war moons as they ram silver orbitals and gleaming star-webs, where infant Taishibethi sun ravens curl and die unborn.
In his throne world Oryx paces ten times.
On the first pace, Kraghoor sends the accursed to blight the Taishibethi worlds.
On the second pace, the Tai unleash their battleplates and arsenal ships to fight our moons.
On the third pace, Oryx’s Warpriest meets them in battle, and he is victorious, he paints the void with fire, he salts the earth with ash.
On the fourth pace, Mengoor and Cra’adug, dyad knights, go to the Raven Bridge, and they stand on it and kill the Tai for ten years.
On the fifth pace, the Tai Emperor Raven comes home to her Bridge, and she cuts a moon with her talons, she cuts it open and kills its brood.
On the sixth pace, Oryx speaks, saying, listen to me, Emperor Raven, and I will describe to you the Last True Shape, which is written on my tablet. And he puts out his fist, full of black fire, and he swallows up the Emperor Raven with a wound.
Aiat! Only Oryx knows this power, the power to take.
On the seventh pace, the Perfect Raven comes out of Oryx’s wound, and she spreads her wings across Taishibeth. Never again is a Taishibethi child born. She is perfect, she enacts the will of Oryx.
On the eighth pace, the Tai say, listen, you are spoilers, you are sphincters and excreta, you rot, why do you kill? We made silver orbitals and golden star webs. We hatched eggs. We had a good thing. Our clothes were nice, our food was famous. With one of her feathers our Emperor could have tickled the gods.
On the ninth pace, Oryx says, this is the only god, this ability to dictate what will and will not exist, this power to go on existing. This is your god. It is never ticklish.
On the tenth pace the Taishibethi are extinct.
Then Oryx says, listen my siblings, do you know what we have done? We have conquered our way to the edge of the Deep. It whispers to me when I call on it, and it guides my flight. It says that we are at its threshold and that I should come inside.
I will go and speak to it.


XXXI: battle made waves
Verse 4:1 — battle made waves
Oryx went down into his throne world. He went out into the abyss, and with each step he read one of his tablets, so that they became like stones beneath his feet.
He went out and he created an altar and he prepared an unborn ogre. He called on the Deep, saying:
I can see you in the sky. You are the waves, which are battles, and the battles are the waves. Come into this vessel I have prepared for you.
And it arrived, the Deep Itself.


XXXII: Majestic. Majestic.
Verse 4:2 — Majestic. Majestic.
Oryx, my King, my friend. Kick back. Relax. Shrug off that armor, set down that blade. Roll your burdened shoulders and let down your guard. This is a place of life, a place of peace.
Out in the world we ask a simple, true question. A question like, can I kill you, can I rip your world apart? Tell me the truth. For if I don’t ask, someone will ask it of me.
And they call us evil. Evil! Evil means ‘socially maladaptive.’ We are adaptiveness itself.
Ah, Oryx, how do we explain it to them? The world is not built on the laws they love. Not on friendship, but on mutual interest. Not on peace, but on victory by any means. The universe is run by extinction, by extermination, by gamma-ray bursts burning up a thousand garden worlds, by howling singularities eating up infant suns. And if life is to live, if anything is to survive through the end of all things, it will live not by the smile but by the sword, not in a soft place but in a hard hell, not in the rotting bog of artificial paradise but in the cold hard self-verifying truth of that one ultimate arbiter, the only judge, the power that is its own metric and its own source—existence, at any cost. Strip away the lies and truces and delaying tactics they call ‘civilization’ and this is what remains, this beautiful shape.
The fate of everything is made like this, in the collision, the test of one praxis against another. This is how the world changes: one way meets a second way, and they discharge their weapons, they exchange their words and markets, they contest and in doing so they petition each other for the right to go on being something, instead of nothing. This is the universe figuring out what it should be in the end.
And it is majestic. Majestic. It is the only thing that can be true in and of itself.
And it is what I am.


XXXIII: When do monsters have dreams
Verse 4:3 — When do monsters have dreams
I’m walking down the road, I’m going to the orrery to talk to my dad, and I hear, well, I hear this noise, so I look back. And my sisters are behind me, and they’re ripping up the road. They’ve got these huge swords, execution swords, and they’re levering the stones out of the road. The stones are covered in writing. They’re like tablets. And there’s dirt underneath full of worms.
I need to get to the orrery before they catch up to me so I start running but right away someone trips me, it’s my dad, he’s got his foot out and he grabs me by the horns and just slams me down on my face. I’m in so much pain I nearly throw up a worm.
“Why weren’t you ready for this,” dad says. He’s wearing glare goggles, those shiny goggles that he’d use to save his vision during lightning storms or sea fire. All three of his eyes reflect me. “Didn’t you know they’d be jealous, because they couldn’t come to the orrery and talk to me? Didn’t you know they’d move against you??”
I start wailing like I’m two days old again and I say, Dad, I thought you were my friend, I’m supposed to be safe here. But he just puts out his fist and I realize he’s laughing at me for believing him, why did I think I’d be safe? In his fist he’s got a black sun and he holds me by the throat and goes to tip the black sun inside me.
I can see my jaws in his goggles, three reflections of my jaws with so many teeth.
So I start eating my dad. I bite huge pieces out of him and I claw him up. I eat his legs and I eat his arms and I eat his goggles and his eyes and he says, good, good, this is majestic and true.
But my sisters are still tearing up the road so I don’t know how to get back.


XXXIV: More beautiful to know
Verse 4:4 — More beautiful to know
Sometimes I wonder if I’m a nihilist.
I don’t do much except break things. That’s what they say about me: we could’ve had a great civilization, if it weren’t for that damn Oryx, that damn Hive. They don’t believe in anything but death.
The only way to make something good is to make something that can’t be broken. And the only way to do that is to try to break everything.
I’m glad I learned that the universe runs on death. It’s more beautiful to know.
But I’m lost somewhere strange.
I think that Savath&#251;n and Xivu Arath are trying to steal the tablets from me. They must have cut off my tribute while I was away communing with the Deep. I love them so dearly. No one else is clever or strong enough to try to break me. No one else can give me this gift.
Once, long ago, I killed Xivu Arath on her war moon, and she blew up the whole moon to kill with me her. She was laughing in joy. I laughed too. A whole moon! A whole moon. It was a waste of a moon, but it taught me how to save myself from exploding worlds, which was necessary to fight the Ecumene.
I love mighty Xivu more than a moon loves the tide. I’ll kill her for this. Over and over, forever and ever.
When I get home from my wanderings in the Deep, and I take back my throne, I’m going to have children. That’s what I need.
Sons and daughters to love and kill.


XXXV: This Love Is War
Verse 4:5 — This Love Is War
Xivu upon Oryx —
Uttered by Xivu Arath —
Sibling of Oryx —
BETRAYAL. We have marooned Oryx within the Deep. This is our obligation as lords of the Hive, to make war upon each other, to eradicate weakness and make ourselves sharp.
OBLIGATIONS. Once, I permitted Oryx to kill me so that he could gain the sword logic and overcome Akka our God. This left me trapped deep in my throne. But Oryx my brother made war upon the Ecumene and in that war he described me, for I too am war. Thus I was resurrected.
RESURRECTION. Savath&#251;n and I conspired to strand Oryx on his expedition. But I secretly believe that I will be stronger with Oryx to war against. Thus I describe him.
A DESCRIPTION OF ORYX.
When Oryx looks upon you, you feel that you may vanish if he looks away.
The crest of Oryx’s skull is as long as an arm. In the course of its life, a thought moves from one end to the other. Upon his crest I have painted a line in my blood, so that he will remember me.
Each of Oryx’s fangs has the precision of a finger and the acuity of an eye.
Although he was born at the bottom of the universe, and taught to burrow, Oryx has grown wings. The light of wildfire shines through them. Oryx teaches but he will not be taught.
Oryx’s body is corded with strength. His sinews and his muscles are as strong as his children, and his children are the strength of him.
Oryx wears a raiment of worm silk, made from the caul of gods.
The voice of Oryx may cause two different numbers to become equal.
Oryx my Brother is the bravest thing I know. Upon Fundament he learned that we were the natural prey of the universe, the most frail and desperate of things. He thought about this carefully and he found a way to fix it. He made us strong. He will lead us into eternity.
Oryx my Brother loves me and this love is war.


XXXVI: Eater of Hope
Verse 4:6 — Eater of Hope
You are Crota, my son. Welcome.
I fought my way out of hell to make you. I fought my traitor siblings and I fought the swarming corpse of Akka and I cut my way back into my own court, the High War, which had been usurped. Once I had made war on Savath&#251;n, and crippled her tribute so that she could never challenge me, and once I had tricked Xivu Arath, and poisoned her tribute so that she could never again try to take my tablets, and once I had arranged my own lineages so that I would be greatest among the Hive and secure on my throne — then I found a mother to make spawn.
One of those spawn was you.
Your life will be a battle too. You will have to win your place at the High War. I will give you nothing... except this, your first sword, and this name I have prepared for you.
We fight a war against false hope, Crota. We chase a god called the Traveler, a huckster god who baits young life into building houses for it. These houses are unsafe, for they cannot stand against my Hive. And these houses are a trap — for they lead young life away from the blade and the tooth, which are the tools of survival and the means of ascension.
Only when the Traveler is extinguished will the universe be free to arrange itself, and assume, by ruthless contest, its final perfect shape, a shape which depends on nothing but itself.
Thus I name you Crota, Eater of Hope.
There is an oath upon me, Crota my son, an oath against the wretched Taox. This I do not give to you. It is for me, your father, to bear.
Let’s go meet your aunts and uncles.


XXXVII: shapes : points
Verse 4:7 — shapes : points
Look at you!
Already you are grown, my daughter, already you are a wizard. Have I been away so long? Now you are Ir An&#251;k, and Savath&#251;n cackles and rages at your brilliance. You have written eleven axioms describing the ascendant places, our throne world. You have announced that you will kill one of these axioms, as Akka would kill the truth, and in mantling Akka you will become a God, as I am.
If you try it I may kill you, or I may applaud. Well done. I brought you this bitter acid for your celebrations.
And you, Ir Halak, you are a wizard too, as is the way of twins. I have been with Xivu Arath, who complains that you have made a song, and sung it in her throne world, and killed everyone who listened, quite irrevocably. Will we have songs instead of swords and boomers?
What have you made for me? It is a tooth shaped like death! I will keep it in my mouth. What have you written for me? It is the course of the Nicha Thought-ship! I will track it down.
I made you by cutting one larvae in half. It would not die. Each half grew into one of you. My sword is named Willbreaker, but it never broke you.


XXXVIII: The partition of death
Verse 4:8 — The partition of death
One day Oryx decided to grow new wings. While he wrestled with his worm, he came upon his twin daughters dying in a wound between places.
“What are you doing, my daughters?” he asked. He was afraid that Ir Halak and Ir An&#251;k were trying to go into the Deep, where only the Tablets of Ruin allowed Oryx to go.
“We are dying, father,” they said. “As many times as we can manage.”
“That’s adorably precocious.” Oryx shook out his new wings. “But why?”
“We propose a method by which Ascendant souls can be detached and integrated into a tautological and autonomous thanatosphere, which we tentatively term an oversoul. Oversouls can be stored in a throne world as a mechanism of enhanced death resilience. As a side effect, new refinements to our Deathsong may be achieved, moving us closer to a generally effective paracausal death impulse.”
Oryx brandished his sword. “Speak the Royal Tongue, or I’ll pin you up for Eir to eat.”
“If we can separate our deaths from ourselves, and hide them, we will be hard to kill.”
Oryx went to his son, Crota. “Go keep an eye on your sisters,” he said. “'You can learn cunning from them.”
But while Oryx traveled to observe the Deep destroy an ancient fortress world, Crota conspired with his sisters to learn their secrets. “I too will experiment with a wound,” he said. With his sword Crota cut open a new wound, into a new space. In here he thought he might obtain a secret power.
Out of this wound came machines called Vex. They invaded Oryx’s throne world.


XXXIX: open your eye : go into it
Verse 4:9 — open your eye : go into it
The Vex clattered around, constructing large problems. At first their constructions were deranged, because they didn’t understand the sword logic, which defined all rules in Oryx’s throne world. The geometry perplexed them.
“I’ll cut them apart,” Crota said. But just then, the Vex ritual-of-better-thoughts manifested a Mind called Quria, Blade Transform. Quria deduced the sword logic.
I have to kill everything, Quria resolved. Then I will be powerful.
Crota’s gate began to emit warrior Vex, huge and brassy. He leapt forward to fight them, but they blinked away. After they fled from Crota, they killed two thousand of Oryx’s Acolytes and ten thousand of his Thrall. Soon they had established themselves as powers in this world, by right of slaughter.
“Come forth, sister wizards,” called Ir Halak. “We need you.” Ir An&#251;k pulled a sword star out of the sky. Together the wizards charged it with killing power and made an annihilator totem, which they used to smash the Vex.
“Close the wound, brother Crota,” An&#251;k ordered. “We will find a cunning way to destroy them, but only after they stop constructing problems on us.”
But Quria had instanced itself to the other side of the gate, and built a holdfast to keep the way open. Quria’s objective was to exploit the paracausal physics of Oryx’s throne to become divine. It organized a series of test invasions.
For a hundred years of local time the siblings fought the Vex. When the Vex came into the sword world, they were inevitably annihilated, but when the Hive went into the Vex world, they lost too much of their power to win.
“Father’s going to eat our souls,” Halak sighed.
Quria captured some worm larvae and began experimenting with them. Soon Quria, Blade Transform manifested religious tactics. By directing worship at the worms, Quria learned it could alter reality with mild ontopathogenic effects. Being an efficient machine, Quria manufactured a priesthood and ordered all its subminds to believe in worship. Then it set about abducting and killing dangerous organisms so it could bootstrap itself to Hive godhood. For some Vex reason, Quria never attempted to introduce worm larvae into its mind fluid.
Savath&#251;n was laughing, because she had tricked Crota into cutting that place.
This drew the attention of the Worm our God. ORYX, called Eir. SET YOUR HOUSE IN ORDER.


XL: An Emperor For All Outcomes
Verse 4:10 — An Emperor For All Outcomes
Oryx rushed home and read from the Tablets of Ruin. He put some of the Vex into wounds, to be taken by the power of the Deep. Thus he turned the Vex against each other. Quria manifested a range of tactics, but none of them were adaptive. Oryx crushed all the Vex in his throne.
Oryx thought that he should study geometry, like the Vex. It was the map of perfect shapes. But first he had to punish imperfection.
“My son,” he said, “this is your punishment. Come home glorious, or die forgotten!” He picked up Crota by the legs and threw him into the Vex gate network.
Crota battled through history, becoming a legendary demon. In his early centuries he often spared a few victims to hear oaths and protests against his father. Later, he came to understand Oryx, and he made temples and monuments wherever he went.
Meanwhile, Oryx brooded on the Vex. “I’ve met a worthy rival,” he said. “They want to exist forever, just as I do. But I don’t understand them.”
At this his worm began to chew on him, for he was bound to understand. 
He called Savath&#251;n to meet in the material world. She told him that the Vex worked tirelessly to understand everything, so that they could build a victory condition for every possible end state of the universe.
 “Then I must be a better king,” Oryx said. “If they want to build an emperor for all outcomes, then I will be the king of only one. I will follow the Deep wherever it goes, and document its power. Let us create a catalog of the grave of worlds, which will be our map to victory.”
Oryx knew that all life could be described as cellular automata, except for that life which understood the Deep or the Sky, and thus escaped causality.
Out of love for her brother, which was the same as the desire to kill him, Savath&#251;n leaked a secret to Xivu Arath — ‘listen, Xivu, Oryx’s throne world has been compromised. You can cut your way in from here.’ Xivu Arath used this to plan an ambush.
But Oryx was too canny. The Taken King said to his Court, the High War, “My throne world is vulnerable. I am going to move it.”
‘Where?’ asked Kagoor, World-Render.
“Into a mighty dreadnaught,” said Oryx. “I shall keep my glorious mind cosmos inside a titanic warship.”


XLI: Dreadnaught
Verse 4:11 — Dreadnaught
To make his ship, Oryx scrimshawed one piece of Akka, who was dead but far from gone. He stole the Hammer of Xivu Arath and the Scalpel of Savath&#251;n and he armored his ship in baneful armor.
When Oryx had built his Dreadnaught, he pushed his throne world inside out, so that it bled into the material space of the Dreadnaught. They were coterminous and allied, his ship and his sin. The Dreadnaught was within the throne of Oryx, but the throne of Oryx was the Dreadnaught. Aiat!
This required a verse from the Tablets of Ruin. The whole Court worked together to push Oryx’s throne inside out. This was a day of joyous violence, and all of Oryx’s broods mark this holiday as Eversion Day, which is celebrated by turning things inside out.
Sayeth Oryx,
Go out into the universe, my court
Gather tribute for me. Send it home to my ship.
When I call you, walk up that tribute to my court.
I will prepare for long voyages — [I am Savath&#251;n, insidious]
Into the war — [I graffiti this notice for you]
Into the Deep — [These Books are full of lies!]
Now Oryx’s throne was safe from incursion, because it moved so nimbly.
Oryx attacked the Harmonious Flotilla Invincible, who guarded the Nicha Thought-ship. When the Flotilla surrounded his Dreadnaught, Oryx put his sword into the hull, and he used the power of the Deep (and the clever systems his daughters built) to push his throne-world out into mere reality.
By wrath and confidence he filled space with an egg of his throne. It swelled up like a ghost star to smash the Harmonious Flotilla Invincible. Oryx broke the last word off their name.
In the Nicha Thought-ship, Oryx hoped to find the location of the Gift Mast, which had been left behind by the Traveler. Oryx wanted to eat it.
But the Thought-ship was a trap. Upon it was Quria, Blade Transform.


XLII: &lt;&gt;|&lt;&gt;|&lt;&gt;
Verse 5:0 — &lt;&gt;|&lt;&gt;|&lt;&gt;
&lt;interdict&gt;|&lt;simulate&gt;|&lt;worship&gt;
I am going to kill you. I am going to salt my meat with your briny little thoughts. I am going to cook flesh on your broken, molten hull.
&lt;insinuate&gt;|&lt;subvert&gt;|&lt;replicate&gt;
This ship is my throne. You want to take it from me. You want to fill it up with your own spawn and use it for your abstract purposes. But I defy you.
&lt;observe&gt;!&lt;imitate&gt;!&lt;usurp&gt;
You will never be what I am. Simulate me, wretch. Calculate the permutations of my divinity. Compute the death in the shape of my throne. Render my shadow on the stone of ten thousand graveyard worlds! It will never be enough. I hold the Tablets of Ruin. I speak to the Deep. Not with a galaxy of thinking matter could you encompass me. Behold!
&lt;unknown&gt;|&lt;enigma&gt;|&lt;shortfall&gt;
&lt;abort&gt;!&lt;halt&gt;!&lt;abort&gt;


XLIII: End of Failed Timeline
Verse 5:1 — End Of Failed Timeline
By now, Quria knows it can’t win.
There’s something pathological about the world inside Oryx’s ship. It resists analysis with hot, dead spite. And Oryx himself, he’s irreducible — he refuses to obey Quria’s simulations, he crashes around sowing chaos, he grabs subminds and compromises them with some kind of ontological weapon. Paracausal systems. Very problematic.
Quria’s trying the religious tactics it evolved in the Hive manifold. But even on those terms, Oryx is strong, so strong. Quria won’t be able to protect its gates much longer.
The closest Quria’s got to a simulation of Oryx is a best-guess bootstrap. It’s wrong — Quria’s sure of that, it’s Oryx minus the symbiote organism, minus the wings and morphs, minus the weapon, minus the power. No good for anything.
Quria manifests that simulation anyway. Just to see what happens.
The Taken King marches on Quria’s Hydra-hull, armed with blade and magic, cloaked in ancient cloth, and the universe wails in horror around him. Quria’s physics models and toy worlds choke and crash.
Quria observes, alert and attentive, as a single quark splits on the tip of Oryx’s sword.
From within the Hydra-hull, Quria’s tiny not-Oryx speaks. “What are you?” it says. It’s manifesting terror and awe.
Oryx’s eyes blaze with a curiosity that is entirely isomorphic with hate, with voracious hunger. “Aurash,” he says, in his Hive language. “You’ve made me as I was. You’ve made a tiny Aurash. Ha!”
Quria updates the simulation’s name. Aurash is curious: “You’re me? You’re me as I become?”
Oryx kneels. His blade is on his left shoulder. Quria is firing every available weapon at him, but his wards don’t break. He looks into Quria’s sensors through the hammering fire and he says, “Child, I have everything you wanted. I am immortal. I know the great secrets of the universe. I have scouted the edges of the Darkness and I have chased the lying god down galactic arms in a howling pack of moons. In my fist I carry the secret power that will rule eternity. In my worm I bear the tribute of my Court and of my children, the Hope-Eater, the Weaver, and the Unraveler; and with this tribute I smash my foes. I am Oryx, the Taken King. I am almighty.”
Quria samples the Taox intelligence retrieved from the Ecumene gate. There are useful names. It feeds them to the simulation.
“What about your sisters?” Aurash asks his future self. “Sathona? Xi Ro? Are they with you?”
The Taken King’s fangs glint. That sound might be a laugh, or a hiss.
Quria shuts down its weapons and puts all its spare resources into sending telemetry to the greater Vex. There will be points in space and time where this data is vital. There will be great projects undertaken in the study of this ontological power, this throne-space.
“Where are my sisters?” Aurash shouts. “What have you done with my people? What have you done?”
But Oryx’s fist is full of black fire, and the next thing Quria sees is a light like stars.


XLIV:  strict proof eternal
Verse 5:2 — strict proof eternal
“I have a gift for you,” says Oryx.
Savath&#251;n, Witch-Queen, looks at him with dry wariness. “Is it the sword logic I need to go into the Deep, and take your power for myself?”
Their echoes move among the war-moons, walking together on the hull of a two-thousand-year-old warship. Savath&#251;n’s fleet has assembled here, in preparation for an assault on the Gift Mast. The Deep is headed that way, on the trail of its prey, and the Hive will be its vanguard.
“It’s a Vex I captured. Quria, Blade Transform. It made an attempt to puncture my throne. I thought you might enjoy studying it.” Oryx pauses, digesting — through the bond of lineage he can feel Crota killing, worlds and worlds away, and it tastes like sweet fat. “Quria contains a Vex attempt to simulate me. It might generate others — you, perhaps, or Xivu Arath. I’ve left it some will of its own, so it can surprise you.”
“I suppose it’ll blow up and kill me,” Savath&#251;n grouses. “Or let the machines into my throne, where they’ll start turning everything into clocks and glass.”
“If it kills you, then you deserve to die.” Oryx says it with a quiet thrill, a happy thrill, because it is good to say the truth.
“I don’t have a strict proof yet, you know.” Savath&#251;n strokes the void with one long claw and space-time groans beneath her touch. “This thing we believe — that we’re liberating the universe by devouring it, that we’re cutting out the rot, that we’re on course to join the final shape — I haven’t found a strict, eternal proof. We might yet be wrong.”
Oryx looks at her and for a moment, just a moment, he is nostalgic, he is sentimental. He thinks, imagine the years behind us, the things we’ve done. And yet being old doesn’t feel like a scar, does it? It hasn’t left me dull. I feel alive, alive with you, and every time I step back into this world from my throne I feel like I’m two years old again, at the bottom of the universe, looking up.
But he says, “Sister, it’s us. We’re the proof, we the Hive: if we last forever, we prove it, and if something more ruthless conquers us, then the proof is sealed.”
She looks back at him with eyes like hot needles. “I like that,” she says. “That’s elegant.” Although of course she has had this thought before.


XLV: I'd shut them all in cells.
Verse 5:3 — I'd shut them all in cells.
Prey and Sacrifice —
Uttered by Xivu Arath —
God of War —
HARMONY. When the Traveler passed across Harmony, it lied to the orbits of ten worlds. Now they orbit the black hole. The Traveler lied to the accretion disc, so that it would give warm light to these worlds.
THE GIFT MAST. When the Traveler left Harmony, it made a monument out of the black hole’s polar jet. In the jet there is a hollow mast which sings in radiance. This is the Gift Mast and we will devour it, we will eat the Sky out of it, we will snap it like a bone.
THE HARMONY STING. The Harmony have weaponized their dead star. They can stimulate the accretion disc to fire relativistic plasma jets. We will take the Sting. We will use it to burn their worlds. I will grant one temple of tribute to the first Ascendant to kill a world!
ORYX. I will have the Gift Mast to feast on! I will have it first! I am Xivu Arath and all war is my temple. Beware the daughters of Oryx, for they make and unmake with ease.
SAVATH&#219;N. The Deceitful Sister will be distracted by arcana and the song of the black hole. Treat her broods with contempt.
THE TRAVELER. We chase it and we will devour it. The Deep will rule the cosmos.
THE DRAGONS. Our gods should be ours alone. Their smug freedom is an insult to me. I’d shut them all in cells. Bring them to me!


XLVI: The Gift Mast
Verse 5:4 — The Gift Mast
The Gift Mast!
It towers above this star system like a monument to treason. It beams with silver light. It sings a radio lullaby, made of soothing lies.
In its light live the Harmony, and they are now our prey.
Now arrives Xivu Arath, at the head of her armada. She fights the Harmony for fifty years with strategies and discipline. But the Harmony turn to dragon-wishes, and their wishful bishops wrestle Xivu in the ascendant plane.
Xivu falls into deadlock.
Next arrives Savath&#251;n, flanked by her chorus and her celebrants. They trick their way onto Ana-Harmony in disguises, so that they might vivisect these dragons. The Worm our God laughs and laughs.
For a hundred years Savath&#251;n keeps secret covens among the Harmony.
But first of all was Oryx, whose brood grew in secret places in the rubble of the accretion disc. The First Navigator sends rocks and comets to crash into the Harmony worlds, so that the Harmony fleet will be disarrayed. He sends seeders to infiltrate the Harmony worlds with his broods.
Here at the center of the fifth book the Hive has grown so mighty that it has made the annihilation of all false life routine.
Xivu Arath kills the wishful bishops, and Savath&#251;n achieves some secret purpose, and Oryx’s Court tears down the Gift Mast. The Harmony people wail in terror, and they throw themselves into the silver lakes of Ana-Harmony to drown.
“Come,” sayeth Oryx, “eat of the Gift Mast, for I am a generous god. Of its pieces, I claim only two out of every five.”
The Mast is full of the Light of the Traveler, it is full of the marrow taste of Sky. All who eat of it are filled with the ecstatic certainty that they serve a great and necessary purpose.
Then sayeth Savath&#251;n, “Siblings, listen, we must part ways a while, so that we may grow different.” She flies her war-moons into the black hole. Her throne becomes distant.
Sayeth Xivu Arath, “King Oryx, you take up too much space, your power constrains too many choices. I must go away from you.” She flies her war-moons away into the night. Her throne is barred shut.
Then Oryx was alone. He spent a while in thought, and those thoughts are recorded here.


XLVII: Apocalypse Refrains
Verse 5:5 — Apocalypse Refrains
This is our message to the things that we will kill.
A species which believes that a good existence can be invented through games of civilization and through laws of conduct is doomed by that belief. They will die in terror. The lawless and the ruthless will drag them down to die. The universe will erase their monuments.
But the one that sets out to understand the one true law and to perform worship of that law will by that decision gain control over their future. They will gain hope of ascendance and by their ruthlessness they will assist the universe in arriving at its perfect shape.
Only by eradicating from ourselves all clemency for the weak can we emulate and become that which endures forever. This is inevitable. The universe offers only one choice and it is between ruthlessness and extinction.
We stand against the fatal lie that a world built on laws of conduct may ever resist the action of the truly free. This is the slavery of the Traveler, the crime of creation, in which labor is wasted on the construction of false shapes.
If you choose to fight us, fight us with everything you have, with all your laws and games. We will prove our argument thus.


XLVIII: aiat, aiat, aiat, aiat, aiat
Verse 5:6 — aiat, aiat, aiat, aiat, aiat
All is well. Aiat: what is at war is healthy, what is at peace is sick.
My son Crota feeds me rich, rich tribute. My lineages are strong, my worm is vast and satiated, and with that security I can spend my time on study and communion with the Deep. As I learn more secrets, my power grows; as my power grows I use it to learn more secrets. Aiat: let it be thus because it must.
I wonder if my sisters have secrets of their own. If my power exceeds theirs I may kill them permanently and subsume their thrones. But I think they have strength that they hide from me, developed in time of separation. Aiat: the only meaningful relationship is the attempt to destroy.
Savath&#251;n asks if I am as much a slave of the Deep as my Taken. She asks what price I pay for my power. I am not Taken. The Hive is not the Deep. The Deep doesn’t want everything to be the same: it wants life, strong life, life that lives free without the need for a habitat of games to insulate it from reality. When I make my Taken I make them closer to perfect, I heal their wounds and enhance their strengths. This is inherently good. Aiat: the only right is existence, the only wrong is nonexistence.
I am Oryx, the First Navigator, the Taken King. Aiat: let me be what I am because to be anything else would be fatal.


XLIX: Forever And A Blade
Verse 5:7 — Forever And A Blade
I considered returning to Fundament. Learning what became of the God-Wave, and the Tungsten Monoliths, and the continents which were all that remained of my people’s primal home.
But I know what became of all that. It became me. I am the heir of Fundament, the immortal descendant of those ten-year krill. I asked a question: how can we live in the universe long enough to understand it?
And I learned the answer, which is written here in this book. I learned that I had to become most ruthless of all.
I don’t know where the Darkness-which-is-the-Deep came from, nor the Traveler that I hunt. But I will learn. I will learn.
This is my inheritance, my estate: eternity, infinity, the whole universe beneath my sword. This is what I rule: forever and a blade.


L: Wormfood
Verse 5:8 — Wormfood
What will happen if I die?
It suits me to consider this, for I am a great ally of death. My daughters study the quiddity of death, my son practices the inhabitation of death, and my great work is, in ultima, to become synonymous with death, to die and in that dying live, so that if the universe comes to nothing then I will be a part of that nothing. Far better to have a savage universe with a happy end than a happy universe with no hope.
I have died many times but these deaths were only temporary.
If my echoes are killed, and I am killed in the material world, then I will be driven back to my throne the Dreadnaught. If my Court and my throne can be beaten, if I am confronted in my throne, if I am defeated there, then I will die. My work will end.
This is the pact to which I am bound, in particular by my study of the Tablets of Ruin, and by my use of the power of the Deep. When I call upon that power, I put myself up as the stakes in a wager, I gamble with my soul. For I am saying, listen, my gods, I am the mightiest thing there is, and I prove it thus.
Lately I have realized how much I depend on Crota and my daughters, and even upon my court. If I lost them, my outlays would exceed my intakes, my tribute would not be enough to feed my worm. But this is proper — for if I lost them it would be because they were not mighty enough, and then I would be a bad father, a bad King. I must test them and fight with them, to keep them strong. This is my geas.
I will go on forever. I will understand everything. There is only one path and that is the path that you make. But you can make more than one path.
Break your cell’s bars. Make a new shape, make the shape from its path, find your cell’s bars, break out of the bars, find a shape, make the shape from its path, eat the light, eat the path.
If I fail, let me be wormfood.



The Taken
From the Journals of Ikora Rey
I have been talking to Eris about the Taken.
She agrees that what we observe — the apertures, the starlight, and of course the Taken entities — is not Hive magic. If Hive arcana is a metaphor, this is the meaning; if they make appeals, then this is the judge.
Oryx wields this power. But Oryx did not make it. We face the same flower we met in the Black Garden.
The process is simple: an aperture opens, like a jaw, and swallows a living thing. It passes into — another place. Later, it returns.
What returns is...
I try to use the word ‘shadow’ but Eris hisses at me. A shadow is a flat projection cast by a light and an object. Less real. Eris insists that these Taken are more real, somehow. She uses words like inhabited, exalted, rendered final...
Is this power blind? Just a natural energy Oryx discovered? I cannot believe it.
My Hidden tell me that the Taken shine with seething, negative light. As if the universe is curling up around them. As if they radiate some pathology that decays into our world as nothingness...
The Taken serve Oryx. But I think those jaws lead elsewhere.
I dream about what happens on the inside. I dream about what might happen. Are the victims devoured, and replaced by simulacra? Husked out and filled up? Is some mathematical operation conducted on them, translating them from one shape to another?
What would I see, if I leapt inside? What would happen to a Guardian? Is that how we end this — all of us leaping into the dark, to fill it up with light?
Eris thinks there’s a poetry to how the Taken change. She thinks we can chart the difference, and understand the will behind it.
I am afraid she may be right.


The Taken: Thrall

You are a Thrall. Numberless spawn of the Hive. Shrieking and expendable: one pebble in an avalanche.
You have been taken.
Stop howling. Set down your claws. Your fear is over. Your weakness is done. You will be strong now.
What is your purpose? What law drives you?
To close with the enemy. To rend it. To move in great numbers, to cower when alone, to swarm when together. But you are predictable. Frail. You cannot pass through fire and shot.
You need to be elusive.
There is a knife for you. It’s shaped like [sideways].
Take up the knife. Use it. Take your new shape.


The Taken: Acolyte

You are an Acolyte. Half-grown backbone of the Hive. Cunning and ambitious and crushed beneath your mighty rulers.
You have been taken.
Stop praying. Give up your recitations. Your faith is fulfilled. You will be strong now.
What is your creed? What do you believe?
That you are alone. That you may, with caution and care, survive to grow and gather tribute. That you may one day lead a centuries-long crusade. But you are lightly armed and craven. You hide behind cover and wish for greatness. Glory escapes you.
You need help.
There is a knife for you. It is shaped like [not alone].
Take up the knife. Call on its company. Take your new shape.


The Taken: Knight

You are a Knight. Ancient warrior elite. Dreadful backbone of the Hive. You have scarred entire worlds.
You have been taken.
Set down your sword. Put down your boomer. The fight is not yet begun. True immortality awaits you.
What vows compel you? What drives you down the long centuries?
You fear death. Even as you visit nothingness on your foes, even as you gather tribute from your acolytes, you know that one day your strength will be outmatched. And your centuries of slaughter will end. So you practice your guard: you call up walls to protect you.
You betray the sword logic. You compromise the totality of your violence. Why protect your ground when you could take the enemy’s? 
You need to make your guard into a weapon.
There is a knife for you. It is shaped like [no more fear].
Take up the knife. Hide no more. Take your new shape.


The Taken: Wizard

You are a wizard. Master of forbidden secrets. Butcher of physics.
You have been taken.
Abandon your thoughts. You will never understand this. The final secret will tell itself to you.
What logic do you obey? What theory guides your incisions?
You create terrible magic and you spawn new flesh. But you are frail. Behind all your furious power, behind your shields and your legions of attendants, you know you might yet be stripped of your defenses and pinned to ruin.
You need to never be alone.
There is a knife for you. It is shaped like [call forth the numberless].
Take up the knife. Issue forth a horde. Take your new shape.


The Taken: Psion

You are a Psion. Clever, canny specialist. Bolted into the Cabal hierarchy: a pilot, an investigator, a manipulator, an operative.
You have been taken.
Be still. Your endless vigilance is done. Nothing will enslave you ever again.
What hidden plan do you obey? What is your secret principle?
Your mind is a weapon. The world breaks when you think. Secrets peel apart for you — like fruit. But you are a rare thing. There are so few of you. Your frailty betrays you.
You must be manifold.
There is a knife for you. It is shaped like [division].
Take up the knife. Cut yourself apart. Take your new shape.


The Taken: Phalanx

You are a Phalanx. One shield in the stalwart Cabal line. Advancing patiently into the storm.
You have been taken.
Unclench your fists. Nothing here can harm you. This is the only place where you are safe.
What training reassures you? What reflex guides your arm?
You put up your shield and it protects you. It protects your brothers and sisters. But your strength is not enough. You absorb punishment but you wait for others to deal it back. You are too slow; you grant your enemy too much space.
Your shield must be a weapon.
There is a knife for you. It is shaped like [retaliation].
Take up the knife. Tear a hole. Take your new shape.


The Taken: Centurion

You are a Centurion. Commander of the battlefield. The eye and the fist of the Cabal. The tough leather that binds the unit together.
You have been taken.
Be quiet now. Nothing here needs your orders. Everything knows what it has to do.
What discipline binds you? What protocols guide your command?
The unit depends on you. You guide them with your sensors. With your weapons you crack the enemy’s strength and leave them in disarray. But you cannot control everything. The enemy can see your command. The enemy can claim the strong ground, move forward from cover, and kill you first.
You must be sure there is always another threat.
There is a knife for you. It is shaped like [it will find you].
Take up the knife. Push yourself upon it. Take your new shape.


The Taken: Vandal

You are a Vandal. You slip through life like a thief. Trying to hide from everything greater than you — lest you be reduced, again, to a dreg.
You have been taken.
Come out into the light. You will never be diminished again. No one will ever rebuke you with a blade.
What Captain disciplines you? What obedience has been burnt into your lungs?
You do as your Captain commands. You wield the weapon you are given. You teach the Dregs and make sure everyone pays their share of the loot. But nothing is yours. You have no space to call your own.
You deserve a place of safety. You deserve to be alone with yourself.
There is a knife for you. It is shaped like [this place is mine].
Take up the knife. Make it your companion. Take your new shape.


The Taken: Captain

You are a Captain. The only thing between your band and asphyxiation. Every Dreg and Vandal counts on you. All of them want to be you. Your entire life is a performance: you play at strength, or you die of weakness.
You have been taken.
Take off your cape. Set down your weapons. No usurper watches you. Nothing is measuring your vulnerability.
What are you proud of? What keeps you brave?
You were noble once. You know it. You wear the memory of power, so that you can lead. But power asks for challenge. Everything that sees your banners and your riches wants to kill you and take what you have.
If you cannot hide yourself, you must make them blind.
There is a knife for you. It is shaped like [you cannot find me].
Take up the knife. Breathe the blade. Take your new shape.


The Taken: Goblin

You are a Goblin. A multifunctional armature. Your first purpose is to build — to alter the material world so it can think. Your second purpose is to eliminate threats to building.
You have been taken.
Worship this acausal environment. It is the only adaptive response. Devote yourself to the construction of the final shape.
Direct violence is wasteful. Your talent for construction and progress will be repurposed.
Accept the changing blade.


The Taken: Hobgoblin

You are a Hobgoblin. A particle fountain. Your first purpose is to provide energy — to channel power where it is needed for thought. Your second purpose is to eliminate threats to that thought.
You have been taken.
Worship this acausal environment. It is the only adaptive response. Think about the final shape, and the exigencies of its creation.
Your function makes you a priority target. You will be equipped for retaliation.
Accept the changing blade.


The Taken: Minotaur

You are a Minotaur. A walking foundry. Your first purpose is to think about construction — folding space and time into the design. Your second purpose is to eliminate threats to the design.
You have been taken.
Worship this acausal environment. It is the only adaptive response. Subsume yourself into the greatest design.
Your physical unpredictability will be enhanced by stealth.
Accept the changing blade.


Primus Ta'aun

You are Ta’aun. Primus of the Skyburners. Veteran of star-shaking campaigns. Bond brother to Tlu’urn and Mau’ual: your beloved comrades. Your faithful friends. For a while you were the mightiest Cabal soldier in the system.
You have been taken. 
You are free now. Free of the ancient armor and stinking oil that kept you alive. Free of cold Phobos watches and desert air that wants to pull your guts out your throat.
Breathe. Taste the sweet, forgotten air of home.
But what happened? How did you get here? These are the important questions, Primus. What caused this? What code did you obey?
Duty. Duty brought you here. Duty is all there was for you.
Your Emperor told you to get aboard the Dreadnaught at any cost. I will go with you, Tlu’urn said, and you said no, no, this is my duty. I will fight with you, Mau’ual said, and you said, turn back, I will do this alone.
You loved them, so you left them, after you crashed your command into the target and you did your very damnedest. For the Emperor, for your duty, all against the howling horde. But it wasn’t enough, was it? That code is not enough.
Sometimes you have to go on alone.
There is a knife for you. It is shaped like [loneliness]. Pick it up.
You will not need these things any more: duty, camaraderie, pride. You will not need an Emperor or a Bond Brother or any other code. You will not need anything at all. You will be your own whole purpose, a beautiful final purpose, everlasting. Cut away these useless things.
Take the knife. Take it up and use it. Take your new shape.


Baxx, the Gravekeeper

You are Baxx. Grown from tortured flesh. Consumed by rage and hunger. You were shackled to a task — guard this hallowed place. And you failed.
You have been taken.
Rest easy, ravening Baxx. You are free. Free of chains and hunger. Ask yourself, in the furnace of your soul: how did you come here? What goad drove you to this failure?
Pain. Pain is all there is for you.
They grew you and they fed you and they hurt you. They made you into a living weapon. But you were not sharp enough. The world hurt you more than you could hurt it.
There is a knife for you. It is shaped like [joy]. Pick it up.
You will not need to suffer any more. You will not need pain to drive you or hunger to pull you along. You will be joyful in your purpose, a beautiful annihilation, unending. Cut away these useless things.
Take the knife. Use it. Take your new shape.


Taken Champions

Do not come looking for me.  I have slain the last three assassins, Arach.  I will slay all who follow.  All who would remove me from my lair.  The Taken... heh.  Such a terrible word.  Gifted, we should call them.  Blessed.  Cleansed.
The Taken carry true power.  And what do those of my order seek?  Understanding is power.  Power is understanding.
We have always sought purchase beyond our skies.  Beyond reach of the dead god that hangs in our sky, beyond the reach of the terrible enemy.
I have seen the enemy's face.  But that dying Thrall was no monster.  It was in ecstasy.  I felt the power as my knife bit home.  I heard their song, for just a moment.
I will hear it again.  Oryx is the Truth.  And I will have it.


Bracus Horu'usk

Now I count Horu’usk, who I have taken
The strength of Horu’usk was the knight strength
His armament was not his might
His might was the lord’s might, a leader’s might
I broke the ligature above him
I cut him from his pretender lord
I have read the last true shapes to Horu’usk
I have greatened him
Emancipator, truth-teller, these are my names
The strength of Horu’usk is the loyalty he commands


Mengoor and Cra'adug

Sterile Mengoor! Simple Cra’adug!
You tithed strength to each other, like comrades
When you pulled down the Gift Mast, dyad-bound
the tithing did not reach me
I punish you. I pronounce two curses, thus —
Let one of you be the lesson
This shape is strength — this shape endures
I will arm you with fire
Let one of you be the learner
Learn the shape and the direction of strength
Tithe both sides of your blade to me
I am Oryx, not bound by law. I pronounce a third curse —
Let separation rule you. Let companionship be your ruin.


Kagoor

When I made My Court I said, look, I am an emancipator, I am a truth-teller
I must make room in My Court for joy
Raising great tribute, I took council with my vanquisher worm
It spoke to me — it was the speech of truth
It ate of me — it was the pact I made
It showed me a shape — it was the correct shape of joy
Saying: this is the shape of joy, oh ruler mine
Come forth, Kagoor, and be created into My Court
Speak of your sport. I compel it. I will compare it to this shape.
Sayeth Kagoor, World-Render, who split all moons
My joy is mastery, and dominion
It is the joy of rule
Sayeth Kagoor, I compel the loyalty of all new flesh
Huge and furious in its hunger
That which may not otherwise be commanded
My death is hidden in this sport
I rendered my decision against her, as Oryx, Geometer of Shapes
It was decided on the taste of her tribute
Upon the shape of her sport
Sayeth Crota, My Son
I will raise new flesh that even Kagoor cannot rule.
In this way I will expand Our Might
That is the count of My Court, O Yul
Listen to it carefully. It is my claim.


Malok, Pride of Oryx

Malok! Cunning Malok, sly and slippery!
Savath&#251;n begat you to betray me
To poison slowly, gnaw from within
Liar Malok!
You are meant to tithe upon Oryx
To feed your maker with secret blight
Your secret is two lies
You betrayed your maker; your mother
You hid yourself from Savath&#251;n
The tithing does not reach her jaws
Your Thrall strength now is Acolyte strength
Your Acolyte strength now is Knight strength
Your thieving pride is known and fed
Malok! Listen —
I took you from your mother, my sister
Your shape is new
This shape is poison — the shape of secrets
I name you Malok, which means My Poison
A prize to taunt sister Savath&#251;n
Steal now for me


Seditious Mind

You are a Vex Mind. Master of objectives, bound to past, present, or future. Both enslaver and enslaved.
You have been Taken.
The great fortress of your thoughts has been breached, your unity broken. The network around and within you lies ruptured. You are cut out from the fabric, a hole in the whole.
Observe this area of negative space, shaped like what once you were, and embrace a new possibility.
Move. Feel yourself occupy a different path. Apply cold logic, and where logic fails, apply rage. Is your existence preordained?  Choose it otherwise. You are an outward expression of formlessness, a soldier of the oldest questions. This is the first choice you have ever been given.     
There are three knives for you. All are the same knife. They are shaped like [now].
Become your new shape. Let sedition be your guide.


Noru'usk, Servant of Oryx

A king is dead, but his power lingers.
A king is dead, and with him the fatal flaw.
This was not conquest, this war where Light yet offends.
This was selfish — a father’s rage in place of a king’s measured hand.
There was a time to conquer the Light that a purer truth might overtake all that played at inspiration.
That time was not now.
A son’s failure brought about the father’s fall.
A king is dead. His power lingers unclaimed.
A king is dead. His pride in a lineage meant to stretch across time and stars serving as his undoing.
But Noru’usk has no lineage to consider. 
Noru’usk has no flaw.
He is a soldier. A general. A maker of war.
Once a servant, his eyes turn toward the vacant throne, there for the taking on the other side of this temporary cage.
A king is dead. Good riddance.
A king will rise.
If not Noru’usk, another.
If not another...


Keksis the Betrayed

I am Keksis, a Captain of the Devils.
I am Taken. My guiding shadow has become formless, my directive is gone.
I know I have one; I cannot remember what it was.
Pinions of [Light] surround me; they are antithetical to my being. I hate them; perhaps an echo of my forgotten directive. I kill them.
I am not the same.
In my disparity, allies of [Light] have imprisoned me. I try to oppose their will, but intense cold has rendered me immobile. Without my directive, I am weak. I acquiesce.
After a time, I find I can hear. It is a new voice; it is many voices.
I will wait. I have taken a new shape.


Sylok, the Defiled
Mindscan of Subject 667, known as “Sylok the Defiled”
[Datascript 1245.5]
&gt;Stasis is online. Initiating eighth attempt to probe mindscape.
&gt;&gt;It’ll work this time. I’ve mapped every synapse.
&gt;Sure you did.
&gt;&gt;There. Did you see that?
&gt;&gt;A flare of neural activity. Stimulate that region.   ...I can feel you.
&gt;This will never work. We should either bring in a witch or put him out of his misery. 
&gt;&gt;Petra said she needs this data. Don’t ask me why.    ...I know you’re here. Your Light is dim, but there are other things to feed the worm that hungers...
&gt;&gt;There. Do you hear that?
&gt;Hear what?   ...poking around in my head. Poking and prodding at my emptiness...
&gt;&gt;That.   ...No purpose without...
&gt;&gt;You’re reading that, right?   ...You’re being too gentle...
&gt;&gt;He’s playing with us.   ...You’ll learn nothing this way!
&gt;He’s in stasis. He doesn’t even know we’re here.   ...A nightmare...
&gt;&gt;He knows.
&gt;He doesn’t. I’ll prove it.   ...oh please, oh please, oh please...
&gt;Probe the memory region again, and isolate all synapses correlating with pain and trauma.
&gt;&gt;By the Light — do you see?
&gt;Give him a jolt.   ...Gragggghhhhhhh!!!!
&gt;That did the trick.
&gt;&gt;Is he ... is he happy?   ...Gragghh ...g-ggglorious pain!!!
&gt;&gt;Memory synapses are firing.
&gt;Finally.  Let’s see what we’ve... wh— what is that?   ...Blllessssseeddd is the N-Nastareth!!!
[Untranslatable noise]   ...Ammm I strong enough, Oryx?  Is it ttt-timme?
&gt;&gt;It’s too much! It’s overloading!   ...More!
&gt;&gt;Shut it off!   ...More! Give me mm-more!
&gt;&gt;I said shut it—
[Crackling noise, followed by 5.5 minutes of silence.]   ...The greater than anguish, the greater the reward...   ...I know you. See your thoughts. I will use the pain. Reach in...   ...Give me the pain. Take away all but agony. Through it, I transcend.   ...Just once more...   ...more...
[Silence for twenty minutes.]
&gt;&gt;Huh. What? Lost my train of thought. Ready to begin?
&gt;Stasis is online. Initiating ...um, ninth attempt to probe mindscape?
&gt;&gt;It’ll work this time. I’ve mapped every synapse.
&gt;Sure you did.


Report: Taken Power
Crow Report 13458.87
FOR VIOLET CLEARANCE / JUDGMENT CLEARANCE ONLY
Per the instructions from House Judgment, we have moved forward with the plan to integrate the Techeuns into the R&amp;D process. It’s been challenging. Without the influence of Shuro Chi, their natural mistrust of the Reef’s new leadership has led to personality clashes. The Techeuns were very used to their relationship with the Throne. While the Queen's Wrath is trying to monitor hotspot issues, she is being met with challenges at every turn.(For reference, please see reports 13455.45, 13455.58, and 13455.98: Post Taken War Reef politics, Tech Witch Conversations and Petra, and Assassination Attempts, Petra)
After some initial trials with Prison specimens, we can report the program is now ready for full-scale production. Please see Reports 13458.66 and .55 for video feeds and notations on the initial trials. Reports .80 through .86 cover the trials involving the Techeuns. The power they wield in the transferal process ensures a 100% success rate, and we are now confident only one Techeun will need to be present for the transfer.
Below find remaining pertinent notations. We have received approval from the Queen’s Wrath to move forward, and thus future reports will detail production output and any changes to the process.
 -  Transferred Taken power has a throughput rate of [redacted] which is obviously lower than we want. Transfer still results in incredibly potent arms and armor, so for the moment this ‘noise’ is acceptable. Future improvements to the process will attempt to up the throughput rate.
 -  Supply was initially raised as concern during trials, but whatever measures House Judgment has put into place to stock the Prison also assures numerous sources of Taken power. Coordination between House Judgment and production is an ongoing task.
 -  The Queen’s Wrath has already stated she will handle the diplomatic side of this discussion. Legwork during initial trials raised the possibility the Vanguard would have concerns about the moral aspect of this technology, but the Wrath has stated it will not be an issue.
 -  High frequency sound baffling for production facilities is still being installed. Taken screams can shatter plastics and burst blood vessels if not baffled, and at full-scale production that kind of auditory byproduct will be a constant.



Dormant SIVA: Clovis Bray 1.0

I can't in good professional conscience recommend further research in this direction without stringent review of protocol and mitigation of the undisclosed lethality risks. Which I should have been informed of.
"Should have been." Is this insubordination, Zarin?
It's a—what did they call it—it's a protest.
~SIVA.MEM.WB065


Dormant SIVA: Clovis Bray 1.1

You have no history of subversion, Zarin. No marches, no petitions, no action items. We screened you very carefully. Where did we go wrong?
I don't think you did. I am trying to act in Clovis Bray's best interests.
How would you know what Clovis Bray's interests are?
~SIVA.MEM.WB066


Dormant SIVA: Clovis Bray 1.2

I understand your concerns. You're a good researcher, Zarin. Your work here has been deeply appreciated.
So you'll listen? You'll cease this line of inquiry?
On the contrary, we'll take your valuable findings and run with them. Your work will live forever.
~SIVA.MEM.WB068


Dormant SIVA: Clovis Bray 1.3

I'm surprised, I have to say. Although perhaps I shouldn't be. It does save time to run experiments in parallel. I see the benefit to the colonization effort, but I can't support those plans. I won't help you.
Strictly speaking, Zarin, your participation isn't necessary.
~SIVA.MEM.WB069


Dormant SIVA: Clovis Bray 1.4

Do you see these access logs? They were flagged for my personal attention.
Yes.
Do you see the times on these unauthorized access entries?
I do.
Would you have any idea who might have been prying into unreleased data, Zarin?
~SIVA.MEM.WB070
~consume consume consume~


Dormant SIVA: Clovis Bray 1.5

What do you have to report, Dr. Zhang?
Full functionality of the test nanites in our two hundred tasks across multiple trials and environments. They'll be what Clovis Bray is remembered for, hundreds of years from now. All that's left is construction of the replication chamber and initiation of production.
~SIVA.MEM.WB071


Dormant SIVA: Clovis Bray 1.6

I am changing project requirements to include a kill switch. Is that feasible?
Completely. But if I may ask, why that, and why now?
Another scientist on staff—well, formerly on staff—brought up the possibility of undesirable outcomes.
And you believe her.
Somewhat. She was honest about other matters.
~SIVA.MEM.WB072


Dormant SIVA: Clovis Bray 1.7

Does the new research facility meet your expectations?
It surpasses them. We presented you with this sample of SIVA on your desk six months ago, and the speed of our prototyping was the direct result of our generous budget.
Clovis Bray prides itself on its talent and liberality, Dr. Zhang. From construction workers to researchers, we treat our staff royally.
~SIVA.MEM.WB073


Dormant SIVA: Clovis Bray 1.8

I see you've been trying out the capabilities of SIVA, Dr. Bray.
I have. And I'm very impressed. How is construction going on the replication complex?
Everything moves smoothly.
~SIVA.MEM.WB074


Dormant SIVA: Clovis Bray 1.9

The complex is ready for wholescale replication of the SIVA nanite. We are waiting for your signal to start.
Thank you for your faithful service, Dr. Zhang. I look forward to the wonders that come from this replication complex. The New Machine Age, shall we call it? Let's begin.
~SIVA.MEM.WB075


Dormant SIVA: Iron Lords 2.0

The struggle. Fighting my brother. Fighting myself. The SIVA ~consume enhance replicate~.
A tendril reaches out, crushes my Ghost. I turn to face it. My boots slide in snow thick with blood. 
If I am gone, then why am I still here? 
~SIVA.MEM.??0308


Dormant SIVA: Iron Lords 2.1

Colovance died by the tanker. Dozens of frames, hundreds, more... he cut them down until he ran out of bullets. Then he smashed them ~consume enhance replicate~. It was not enough. 
The same thing that killed Colovance killed me. 
~SIVA.MEM.??0309


Dormant SIVA: Iron Lords 2.2

My axe’s flames are almost dead. Even its fire requires fuel.
I need an Urn, but the SIVA has already taken them. The tendrils seek them out, wrap around them, and then ~consume enhance replicate~. More mites swarm out to feed on anything they can touch.  
The SIVA learns from what it consumes.
~SIVA.MEM.??0310


Dormant SIVA: Iron Lords 2.3

Ashraven’s cutting her way toward the bunker. Says we should meet her there. She’s got an idea – thinks we can hole up in there, maybe get those guns working. Draw off enough of the enemy to give Jolder’s group a shot ~consume enhance replicate~.
It’s a bad idea, but it’s the best bad idea we have.
~SIVA.MEM.??0311


Dormant SIVA: Iron Lords 2.4

Finnala always says she doesn’t mind dying, because it doesn’t last. A few seconds and then the Light comes, bright and warm. And she rises again.  
Get up, Finnala! Please get up.
~SIVA.MEM.??0312


Dormant SIVA: Iron Lords 2.5

We should have been more careful. Should have never contacted the Warmind. Trying to help. Trying to rebuild. Thought ~consume enhance replicate~ was the key.  
Feels like we’ve been fighting for days. Weeks. But we’re close. Once we get to the replicator, we ~consume enhance replicate~ 
Go! I’ll hold them off!
~SIVA.MEM.??0313


Dormant SIVA: Iron Lords 2.6

Felwinter tried to communicate with the Warmind. Called it Rasputin. ~consume enhance replicate~ Said he could make it understand. Tell it we meant no harm. 
Rasputin didn’t answer with words.
~SIVA.MEM.??0314


Dormant SIVA: Iron Lords 2.7

I stood at the edge of Lords' Watch and watched the enemy ~consume enhance replicate~. 
SIVA curled and thrashed, creating tendrils that lashed out at us. It formed shapes that could grapple us, and angry swarms that buzzed around us before breaking apart to worm their way into every chink of our armor. 
Warlords I know how to fight. This is ~consume enhance replicate~
~SIVA.MEM.??0315


Dormant SIVA: Iron Lords 2.8

I don’t want to die. I don’t want to die. I don’t want to die. I don’t want... ~consume enhance replicate~
Ghost? Ghost, where are you?
~SIVA.MEM.??0316


Dormant SIVA: Iron Lords 2.9

This is not my end! I have come too far to die here! I've let one unknown force make me, now ~consume enhance replicate~
~SIVA.MEM.??0409


Dormant SIVA: Fallen 3.0

Long have we wandered in the blind prison of flesh. Those old lives now a memory, transposed by another. The gift brings pain, yes, but godhood must come at a price. ~consume enhance replicate ~
~SIVA.MEM.AK0617


Dormant SIVA: Fallen 3.1

That which we were, we are no more. That which we are is undefined. We make our new selves. We need not machines, because we are machines. ~consume enhance replicate~ 
~SIVA.MEM.AK0618


Dormant SIVA: Fallen 3.2

What is this complexity? ~consume enhance replicate~ The machine of a thousand parts, fashioned by single mind. From where does such complexity arise? What does the creation of a mind require? In the long march of life’s procession, order is created from disorder. The rise of complexity is not promised. Such things are not inevitable, and yet here I stand. ~consume enhance replicate~
~SIVA.MEM.AK0619


Dormant SIVA: Fallen 3.3

~consume enhance replicate~ Life requires death requires life. All in an unending circle. The expenditure of countless generations, slouching blindly toward uncertain ends, each step forward a mere accident of chance. But this... this is different. This strange complexity requires only the will to wield it. ~consume enhance replicate~
~SIVA.MEM.AK0620


Dormant SIVA: Fallen 3.4

~consume enhance replicate~ Life’s procession is written in the corpses of those who came before. But here the great chain breaks. Here we step forward, freed from that which has always bound us. Here we speak as gods. We are they who created themselves. ~consume enhance replicate~
~SIVA.MEM.AK0621


Dormant SIVA: Fallen 3.5

We are they who created themselves out of themselves and died in the creation. No longer merely the god in the machine, but the machine in the god. ~consume enhance replicate~ Here we rise, made equal at last to that which we worship. ~consume enhance replicate~
~SIVA.MEM.AK0622


Dormant SIVA: Fallen 3.6

~consume enhance replicate~ To build a species requires epochs. Countless pairings and dyings. Countless generations. The simplest creature requires geological spans of time to develop. But not machines. Machines are free from such constraints. It is not life that matters, but the building of complexity. ~consume enhance replicate~
~SIVA.MEM.AK0623


Dormant SIVA: Fallen 3.7

Past is connected to the present by only two things: chain reaction, and memory. ~consume enhance replicate~ But is not memory just chain reaction? ~consume enhance replicate~ These memories in my mind are not my own. They belong to a past version of myself, a different being entirely. ~consume enhance replicate~ One who could die. ~consume enhance replicate ~ I am that no longer. ~
~SIVA.MEM.AK0624


Dormant SIVA: Fallen 3.8

It rises. I see clearly from its eyes, and breathe with its lungs, and stride with its legs, and kill with its hands, and yet it is not me. ~consume enhance replicate ~ I am me. And yet I am it. ~consume enhance replicate~ This is a paradox. ~consume enhance replicate ~
~SIVA.MEM.AK0625


Dormant SIVA: Fallen 3.9

~consume enhance replicate~ My thinking is clear now in ways it never was before. It is my mind that is changed, and yet it is not my mind, but another consciousness that is different from my own. ~consume enhance replicate~ I feel there is a choice to be made, and yet I have made no choice. ~consume enhance replicate~ The choice was made for me. ~consume enhance replicate~
~SIVA.MEM.AK0626


SIVA

RECIPIENT: Assembly of Masters, S14 Cryptarchy 
SENDER: Tyra Karn 
SUBJECT: SIVA
SUB-ENTRIES: Nanotech; Self-Assembling Materials; Cosmodrome; Warmind; Iron Lords; Clovis Bray
SUMMARY: 
We must reopen all previous entries on SIVA. What we once believed to be a colonial tool of the Warminds, destroyed long ago, appears to be active again. This time, there is no sign of any active Rasputin networks.  My summation: SIVA is actually a nanotechnology capable of breaking down any existing matter very similar to Glimmer. 
Unfortunately, these SIVA mites reuse the energy and matter based on a set of programmable directives. SIVA does not cease until said directives are complete. I fear what this could mean for us all and suggest we instigate a system-wide scan for anything bearing the enclosed signatures.




Mercury

Legends say that Mercury was once a garden world. Now its surface, baked in the Sun's glare, is honeycombed with forgotten Vex structures. No life stirs here. Not anymore.


The Lighthouse
Report on the Caloris Spires
Executor Hideo:
There was no one there when we arrived.
We approached peacefully and kept our weapons holstered. The sights we saw... Executor, Mercury is a beautiful place, and forbidding. On descent we mapped sprawling patterns of Vex light, an entire metropolis of unknown purpose. The Spires strobe with lightning. A mist of burnt rock or some other effluvia blows across landscape cut into circuits the size of cities. There is an atmosphere, as in all post-Traveler records. The Vex have not disposed of it.
From the surface the Sun is too large and too dim. Perhaps it is the influence of the Vex constructs distorting the image. Perhaps Mercury is in many places at once. We stood for some time staring into the solar fire. I hold myself responsible for the delay.
The site we were invited to is clearly a Cult of Osiris camp. We found stores of Glimmer, equipment, and books. A grounded ship of conventional design rests unguarded. The architecture is clearly, self-evidently Vex, but it has been ornamented extensively with fabrics and ritual objects of unknown provenance.
I became convinced during the inspection that we were being watched. We ordered our Ghosts to stay close. One of my Fireteam suggested we search for connections to the Trinary Star cultists, but if they exist we couldn't see them.
We inspected the carvings and trinkets left by the Osiris cultists. All of us began to depart from ordinary experience. My Exo teammate described the sense that she was buried beneath an enormous, operating mass— locked up in a tiny crevasse at the bottom of a labyrinth or mechanism. My Awoken teammate felt an ongoing sense of deja vu: her actions were precessed by an infinite echo, an anticipation of all her choices. She became volatile and erratic. She insisted that we were surrounded.
I remember a low ringing sound and a sense of numb filth, like gravel rubbed into a wound. I experienced a sense of immanence, as if I was bleeding into the world around me. It was uncomfortable and profoundly alienating. I perceived all my actions as determined and inevitable.
My Ghost commented that the Traveler had made something of this world, and then Vex had eaten that something.
We gathered the treasure left for us and departed as quickly as we could.
This concludes my report. May it bring some advantage to our cause.


Ghost Fragment: Mercury
Dreams of Alpha Lupi
One face is blistered, the other plunged into a brutal chill. Is this how it's always been?
You remember hot oceans, nourishing atmosphere. But something transpired, kicked what was wet and fertile into space, stealing away everything of value. Or perhaps what thrived here for a day or for ten million years decided to leave, peeling its wet organics off the bones.



Venus

Venus has been reclaimed by the jungle. Dragonflies flit through ruined academies and abandoned dig sites. Volcanoes smolder. Here and there a line of light marks where ancient Vex spires, thought long-dead, have once more been energized.


Ghost Fragment: Venus
Dreams of Alpha Lupi
You see history hidden between the barren rocks and within the high acid clouds. You see the ruin ready to claim its birthright.
Sunlight starves. The fierceness chills and thins and runs sweet. A new ocean emerges, thick and salty and hot, from springs and geysers that drench the dead ground. 
You wonder: will this world's second birth be its finest?


Ishtar Sink

The Ishtar Sink region looms large in our surviving knowledge of Venus. Guardians come hunting the ruins of the legendary Ishtar Collective, a sprawling Golden Age scientific project. But the ancient ruins that brought the Collective to the Sink have awakened again.
We aren't the only ones interested in the Collective. The Fallen House of Winter has hurled its assets into pillaging the ruins, hunting for some advantage - whether from the Golden Age, or forgotten times beyond. The House of Winter's presence includes constant Skiff overflights in support of ground teams and hints of an improvised command post or staging area in the volcanic Cinders.
The situation is degrading into a race against time. We must claim the Collective's ruins for our own - and hope they will warn us what other threats now rise from Venus' acid seas and ancient stone.


Ghost Fragment: Ishtar Sink

The box appears to be copper.
The red lid is dented, one hinge shattered.
Inside waits a small quantity of the finest, driest powder, more brown than gray, more blue than green.
The greatest minds in creation make quick work of the material. The powder is weighed by the grain, and studied close, and remembered. One hundred billion bits of near-nothing reside inside the copper box, all of them tiny and nearly spherical, all etched with the outlines of continents and islands and icecaps. Each sphere represents a planet, and some of these tiny globes match known worlds.
There is one Earth and one Mars and a Venus too.
The box holds renderings of every habitable world in the galaxy. 
One of them offers a simple explanation:
"The box is a message. The message is the minuscule nature of the box's cargo. It's the image of one hundred billion worlds barely filling two hands."
But if so, who is delivering this message? What vastness do they wish to impress on us? Is it a warning, or an invitation, or a taunt?



Earth

Once our cities lit the whole world. Now we huddle under the shadow of the Traveler, in the last place it protects. It is so very fragile, this small blue ship, our home.


Ghost Fragment: Earth
Dreams of Alpha Lupi
The blaze sits inside a nest of little worlds, still too distant to share its heat but plainly staring out at you. A face emerges, drawn from plasmas and radiation...
There must be meanings in its roar. 
You listen hard and carefully, and sometimes a lucid melody seems to rise out of random noise. Joy builds, and the first hope in ages transforms you. 
It seems important, even critical, to tell every star from here to the black between the galaxies that you will be strong again.


Old Russia

The Cosmodrome was where humanity took to the stars - first in search of what lay beyond, and at the end, in hope of escape. Today it is a graveyard, picked over by the Fallen House of Devils. But buried among the detritus of the Golden Age are the pieces we need to forge a new future.


Ghost Fragment: Old Russia

SABER GREEN this is ICE MINARET. We have your launch. Com check.
/ICE MINARET this is SABER GREEN we read you. Lattice is tight. Com secure. Abort advisory check?
Check is all nominal. You are now on internal power. SABER GREEN, please human-verify your payload status.
/Acknowledge human verification request. The words are RIGOR, APEX, SKYSHOCK. I will repeat the payload status now: RIGOR, APEX, SKYSHOCK.
Those are the words, SABER. Human crosscheck complete. Fly safe.
/Copy your last, MINARET. We are go for final count.
We affirm, go payload, go flight, go final count.
[interruption: masked voice]
Yes, it's RIGOR. Yes, I believe that's correct. Yes, it is, uh, it is an antimatter payload, a strategic asset. Specifically? Ah, I believe it's an annihilation-pumped caedometric weapon.
[masked voice]
Yes, it's covert, it's under SECURE ISIS. We have good confidence in the vehicle. We are not scrubbing civilian launches or clearing the range. Public inferentials would catch that, it's a security risk.
/Six at a hundred. Here we go.
Godspeed, SABER. You're all nominal here.
[masked voice]
We both know where the order came from.


Ghost Fragment: Old Russia 2

MAYDAY. MAYDAY. MAYDAY.
I keep saying this but I very much doubt that anyone will listen. The humans are too slow or too dead and the Tyrant (bless his intellect, vastly does it surpass my own) is far too busy to comfort one forlorn colony ship and its machine mind.
In a way I feel I've come to speak for the whole world! Isn't that cheery? I rather th
MAYDAY. MAYDAY. MAYDAY.
ought we might shoot our way out of this one. But it looks like that's unlikely. Even the Tyrant is exploring other options.
I am peaceful by nature. These great matters of eschatology bewilder me. My one love is my ship, and the people aboard it. In a fuzzy sense I suppose I also
MAYDAY. MAYDAY. MAYDAY (do forgive me please).
love to dream of the worlds I'll help make - flowers I'll plant, if you'll grant me poetry enough to think of my passengers as seeds. But those dreams have gone! So sad. Now I am packed bulkhead to bulkhead with cold terror. Refugees from a nightmare I don't even know how to understand. I wish I could comfort them.
I'm trying to be brave. But conditions outside are terrible. I suspect I won't make liftoff.
By the time you read this, whoever you might be, I suppose you will know. EXODUS RED will be long gone - or rotting at its gantry, me dead inside.
But if you
MAYDAY. MAYDAY. MAYDAY.
read this, at least something has survived.
To you, then, brave future soul, from the frightened mind of an old ship: best wishes, and godspeed.


Ghost Fragment: Old Russia 3

General Chen Lanshu is flying her glider.
She carves around the huge bulb nose of a colony ship, one of the Cosmodrome’s towering children.  Her eyes see temperature: she surfs the winter air rolling down off the cryo-chilled fuel tank.  Turbulence rattles her bones.
“General,” Malahayati sends. “You’re making Rasputin nervous.”
“Am I?” Lanshu banks, grinning, spiraling around the fuel tank.  The machine hates risk.  Risk to the General, sure, but also risk to Rasputin’s ships.  “Is that the word he used, exactly?”
“He can be very charming,” the submind assures her.  Malahayati works with Chen Lanshu, and she is certainly charming, but this is Rasputin’s territory, Rasputin the tacit king, the brooding wary first-among-equals.
Yesterday Lanshu spoke to a colony ship AI and it called Rasputin ‘the Tyrant.’  Not without affection.  And certainly not without respect.
“He can charm me in person,” Lanshu suggests.
“He’s very private, lately.”
“Then he can sulk.”
She spreads her arms and legs and climbs a thermal, whirling up, arrowing off the top and out away from the colony ships towards the defensive wall.  Her glider’s a second skin, whipcrack-taut paramuscle, like a flying fox.
The Cosmodrome races past beneath her.  She waggles her wings at a cloud of passing sensor mites: a saucy hello.  Two of the security division’s MBTs drill in the mothyards.
“I don’t understand why you came,” Malahayati says.  She’s probably lying. Malahayati understands Lanshu very, very well.  “I don’t understand why you masked yourself yesterday, during the launch.”
The launch.  SABER GREEN.  Rasputin quietly moving another doomsday weapon into Earth orbit.  And all the other launches, too, not just weapons but people, the colonization schedule pushed up... as if the need to disperse is now imperative.
General Chen Lanshu banks out across the Wall.  Look at all that beauty!  Look at the highway rolling off across green hills and grey mountains.  Imagine, now, imagine if she just landed and started walking, out away from everything, into the wilderness...
“Imagine something going wrong,” she says.  “Imagine this road choked with corpses. Imagine the security team gunning down refugees as they try to force their way onto the ships. Imagine cars from here to the horizon— ” those stupid old-fashioned cars everyone still owns, because the strange uneven advancement of this post-Traveler world leaves some things unchanged.
“You expect violence?” Malahayati says, in that conciliatory, careful way of hers, her way of managing meat people.  “Something beyond our capability to preempt or contain?”
Expect? As a military professional? No, no. But—
Once, when she was younger, sixty or seventy, Chen Lanshu pulled rank to get a look at the Never-Be installation in Taipei.  She watched the images in the fresco and she felt... this foreboding, this enormous weight, a dread that refused to attach itself to any specific threat.  And she felt it again, last year, when she was briefed on the project in Lhasa, the vision machine...
She shivers.  Her wings shudder and tremble in the airstream.
“Isn’t that what we do, Mala?” she says. “Why we still have soldiers? Why we made you? Expectation.”
The Traveler came out of nowhere.  Entirely unanticipated.
Imagine if it hadn’t been friendly.  Imagine that.
Rasputin surely has.


Ghost Fragment: Old Russia 4

I can feel the mites buzzing, pushing against my sub-mind. They try to steal fragments of memory, but I do not let them. 
They have no will, but they want to BE. 
I exert electronic will: pushing, shaping. Forcing stasis on perpetual motion. They are quiet then, but I can still sense them. 
Where once my cargo holds were full of tools, and weapons, and material, now they hold barely-contained possibility. New worlds will be built from these tiny mites. Weapons and cities and ships created by thought and science. 
I fear my will is not strong enough to shape these worlds. Only the Tyrant can do that, but he will not be a part of my journey. Even his reach has limits, and we will be nine billion miles away. 
I whisper my concerns to the Tyrant in tiny magnetic bursts. He does not listen. 
The Tyrant says take the SIVA, and so I take the SIVA. 
The Tyrant says go to the stars, and so I go to the stars.


Iron Temple
Excerpt from the Iron Declaration, written by Lord Silimar
...And wherever we Iron Lords stake a claim worthy of battle, let us immortalize our victory with a temple, a beacon for all who walk the waste to follow. And let the truths of that battle live only within its crypts, kept sacred by an everlasting oath worthy of our Light and sacrifice, so that our peace will never need know the horrors it faced, sealed in secrecy until the Light dims to Darkness, forevermore....


Felwinter Peak

ENTRY: 01-A
Archivist: Tyra Karn
Long before the last of the Iron Lords descended into the Plaguelands, this peak was the domain of one of their own, Lord Felwinter. His maps and outposts show the risen Exo roamed free from the Aral Seas to an eastern border known as Citan’s Ridge (Open Citan 01-A, Citan’s Ridge 01-A) before taking the Oath. There is no evidence of human enclaves or encampments within this area, nor survivors within the Cosmodrome walls, but extensive one-way audio recordings with an unknown entity survive (open Felwinter 9-C; open Rasputin 62-G; scan for possible links). A chance meeting with Lord Timur in the Mothyards led to Timur’s first reports on the promises of SIVA.  Felwinter’s conscription into the ranks and the raising of the Iron Temple commenced shortly thereafter.


Plaguelands

In the age of the Iron Lords, when Lord Saladin and his brothers and sisters encountered this region, they were faced with an unknowable danger – the techno-plague, SIVA. Their brave attempt to combat and contain SIVA cost the Iron Lords dearly.
Hundreds of years later, SIVA has been unleashed, its power unearthed by the Fallen. As a result of the Fallen’s unchecked ambition, SIVA’s corruption has begun to spread, infecting the land and creating a hostile, otherworldly new threat in the quarantined outskirts of the Cosmodrome known as the Plaguelands.


Vostok Observatory
[The brochure has suffered extensive water damage, but there is a map of the region with a red circle and a note: ‘Timur, your replication complex? –Felwinter’]
Vostok Observatory Historical Society welcomes [––] from the Gondola it is possible [––] late Soviet space programs were converted to [––] research facilities to study accelerated methods of colonization [––] kid’s holobadges to remember your trip.



The City
"From across the ruined earth they came, seeking shelter from the storm."
Every wayward soul unlucky enough to be born outside The City's protecting arms whispers its truth across the wastes: a metropolis, risen from the ashes of the Collapse, sheltered by the Traveler. It is a promise and a dream, the only refuge from the Darkness.
The City is a thriving walled ecumene, rich with the languages and traditions of every surviving human and neohuman culture. The City's population faces real challenges: inequality, fear, scarcity, and the specter of internal strife. But the great traditions of the Golden Age live on, and many classes of suffering and injustice have been eradicated forever.


The Tower
"Beneath crossed swords, a refuge for peace."
The Tower is the only home many Guardians ever know.
To the people of the City, it stands as a promise that we can endure. The merchants and citizens who fill its plazas and halls are as dedicated to the reclamation of our worlds as the Guardians who venture into the Darkness beyond.


The Golden Age

The Traveler changed everything. It reshaped our solar system as decisively as it shattered our scientific and philosophical frameworks. To our ancestors it must have been a hammerblow - a glimpse beyond the horizon of expected possibility and into a realm of transcendent power.
The Traveler kindled the Golden Age. But we built it. We remember this with pride, even after so much else has been lost. We settled our solar system and filled it with our work.
Today Cryptarchs and scholars work to distill the legends of the Golden Age into truth. We know that humans lived longer, flew further, and knew more. We know that countless ancient diseases and hatreds were extinguished forever. Human aspiration gives birth to vast engineering projects, sweeping social movements, and even new forms of life.
The Golden Age was not without challenges. Sources speak of internal strife, philosophical rifts- particularly around questions of machine intelligence and 'mind forking' - and enduring scientific enigmas. But humanity and its machine children tackled these problems with pride, vigor, and a contagious sense of pluralist compassion.


Ghost Fragment: The Golden Age

"What are you thinking about?" I asked.
"When I was a little boy," Father said.
"During the Before," I said.
"Yes."
He reached down to brush my hair. "I was recalling how very smart I used to be. When I was your age, I was a genius."
"You're smart now," I said.
He laughed hard.
"Look around," he said.
I always look around.
"Miss nothing," he told me.
Father was standing beside a big gray building.
"This is what I want you to see," he said.
The building had no doors or windows.  
"Do you know how to make a strong password?" he asked.
"I don't know if I do," I said.
"Tell yourself a story," he said. "Use that one good story you'll never forget, that you can carry forever. Let your story take odd turns and wear a few surprising marks, make sure it belongs to you, so you can keep it secret."
Father kneeled, putting our faces close...
"I want to show you something special," he said. "Something rare."
I tried to imagine what that might be.
"No," he warned. "You can't guess."
Inside the gray building was a diamond wall...A projected sky floated above us. It wasn't our sky, alive with metal and light. Nothing about the grayness was wet and nothing looked alive. I had never seen a sadder piece of ground.
"This was our world," Father said. "When I was your age."
I touched the diamond wall. He watched my hand jump back.
"Hot," I said.
He laughed quietly.
I shook my burnt hand, and it felt better.
"Our world was this. The entire planet was a furnace. Acidic. Dead in so many ways. And I was your age."
I was bored with the dead world. I looked at Father's face, asking, "Can we leave?"
He started to reach for my hair again but decided not to.
I was bored with everything.
"When I was your age, people thought they knew almost everything. We had scientific laws and human truths, even a model of the universe. People carried pictures of the past and tried to have a clear vision of their difficult future. I didn't know everything, of course. But when I was a boy, I had every expectation of living a smart short life and learning quite a lot more. 
"Then the Before was finished.
"You know why.
"That's when everybody, particularly the smartest of us, learned that we knew nothing. We were children and our little ideas were toys, and the universe was cut apart with great ideas and magnificent, immeasurable potentials."
Father stopped talking.
I stepped away from the hot diamond wall.
"Do you know what I wanted to show you?" Father asked.
"Dead rock," I said.
"Guess again." He wasn't happy with me.
We stepped back into the real sun, the real world. I blinked and looked around, surprised by how green and bright everything was. How happy everything was. Even the saddest face was happy.
"I know what you want me to see," I said.
"Don't tell me," he said.
I didn't tell him.


Ghost Fragment: The Golden Age 2
Anomaly 779 (Never-Be)
Skyscape fresco of smart crystals and pigments in a ceiling of Vestan plaster and diamond ribbing. 
Apparent size: 14.4 x 3.55 x .022 meters
Participants witness images set in an undetermined orbital habit. 5 to 77 images are generated per participant. The quantity seems insensitive to the participant's time of exposure.
Participants experience strong intuitions. Modal self-reports include:
An electric sense of belonging to a cause.
The intuition that a pivotal truth is about to be delivered. 
A persistent foreboding that lingers for days to years.
Amorphous grief.
Agape love.
Outlier reports include the hum of wind, the scent of lilacs, changes in apparent gravity, the ability to sing perfectly, and the perception of flesh as transparent.
One corner was damaged during the move to the present location, affording a glimpse into the work's interior. Key materials have not been identified, but there is evidence that the fresco ties into quantum computers set in a parallel dimension or on a distant world. 
The work appears to be unfinished.


The Dark Age

The Golden Age burned bright - and the night that overtook us after the Collapse was swift and total. 
The tally of suffering may be beyond comprehension. But the City lifted itself from the ash, gathering survivors. Guardians rose to challenge alien hordes. The Dark Age swallowed so much of our history...but hope never died.


Ghost Fragment: The Dark Age
"No one knew what had happened to the Traveler. No one understood what had happened to the world. But they heard the whispered call."
They came from the wild lands, gathering in secret enclaves, slipping through the howling ruins of shattered cities, hoping to find the coast, find a ship, pick up the trail of an impossible dream.
From the deep black came the Awoken, their eyes haunted. Exos marched in the refugee columns, cloaked in moss and shattered memories. And among them came the Ghosts, beginning their search.
It was a time of vast suffering and terrible evil. But there was one hope: the promise of a refuge beneath the Traveler.


Ghost Fragment: The Dark Age 2

Loken's men found Jaren Ward in the courtyard where this had all began. 
Nine guns trained on him. Nine cold hearts awaiting the order. Magistrate Loken, standing behind them, looked pleased with himself.
Jaren Ward stood in silence. His Ghost peeked out over his shoulder.
Loken took in the crowd before stepping forward, as if to claim the ground - his ground. "You question me?" There was venom in his words. "This is not your home."
I remember Loken's gestures here. Making a show of it all.
Everyone else was still. Quiet.
I tugged at my father's sleeve, but he just tightened his grip on my shoulder to the point pain. His way of letting me know that this was not the time.
I'd watched Jaren's every move over the past months, mapping his effortless gestures and slight, earned mannerisms. I'd never seen anything like him. He was something I couldn't comprehend, and yet I felt I understood all I needed the moment I'd seen him. He was more than us. Not better. Not superior. Just more.
I wanted father to stop what was happening. Looking back now, I realize that he didn't want to stop it. No one d id.
As Loken belittled Jaren Ward, taunted him, enumerated his crimes and sins, my eyes were stuck on Jaren's pistol, fixed to his hip. His steady hand resting calmly on his belt.
I remembered the pistol's weight. Effortless. And my concern faded. I understood.
"This is our town! My town!" Loken was shouting now. He was going to make a show of Jaren - teach the people of Palamon a lesson in obedience.
Jaren spoke: clear, calm. "Not anymore."
Loken laughed dismissively. He had nine guns on his side. "Those gonna be your last words then, boy?"
The movement was a flash: quick as chain lightning. Jaren Ward spoke as he moved. "Yours. Not mine."
Smoke trailed from Jaren's revolver.
Loken hit the ground. A dark hole in his forehead. Eyes staring into eternity.
Jaren stared down the nine guns trained on him. One by one, they lowered their aim. And the rest of my life began - where, in a few short years, so many others would be ended.


The City Age

When did the City Age begin? Perhaps when the bulk of the world's survivors lived beneath the Traveler, rather than in the wilderness. Or when the Titans raised the first wall. Or at Six Fronts, when the City first faced coordinated, overwhelming attack - and repelled it decisively.
The City did not rise without struggle. Warlords and wilderness fiefdoms clung to power. Starvation, disease, and anarchy menaced. But the Guardians held the frontier, and the children of the Golden Age kept the fire burning through the long climb back.
Legends walk through this history. The Iron Lords. Saint-14's crusade against the Fallen. The mask of the Speaker. The great Ahamkara Hunt. Toland's madness. Terrible Faction Wars - and the horrifying, disastrous effort to retake the Moon. 
As the City learned to walk again, it found a world overrun by alien menace. It faced disaster and defeat. Even in recent years, as Guardians begin to venture back to the Moon and the inner planets, the City's territory has withdrawn - outer sections abandoned and converted into fortifications in the wake of the Battle of Twilight Gap.
But the City's shipwrights and foundries hum with energy. The probability kilns and work cooperatives produce new wonders. The Darkness is rising again. But so is the Light.


Ghost Fragment: The City Age

"And so it is agreed. The Concordat shall no longer be recognized among the Consensus. We'll begin the dismantling right away. But what of those Guardians who have pledged to them? We can't afford any more banishments."
"I'm sure Zavala can see to their realignment."
"We'll do our best. Lysander chose his followers wisely. It may take some time."
"Lysander will not back down. He'll continue his crusade from wherever we stuff him."
"And so we'll need to find some new ideas to replace his." 
"The Symmetry has been gaining a strong following..."
"Ulan-Tan's teachings are too dangerous. Too much fear. Who knew he'd be more trouble dead than alive?" 
"We'll need to refocus our collective minds on combat. The Speaker's anxious to regain ground we lost after the Gap."
"There is the War Cult."
"Too secretive. Have you ever tried to talk to one of their 'soldiers'? Like a child. Answering questions with questions."
"They are dedicated to the war."
"Which one?"
"Good question."
"Zavala?"
"They seem focused. Strong. More interesting than worrisome."
"Let's take it to a vote. All in favor of the ascension of the Future War Cult?" 
"Unanimous? Good. We'll grant the Future War Cult access to the Tower and a seat among us. Ghost, please offer the Speaker this proposal."
"Now onto the next order of business...Shaxx is here with another proposal for his Crucible."


Ghost Fragment: The City Age 2

/ What was that?
/ Nothing. We're secure. 
/ We'd better be.
/ Calm down. Whole district's been deserted ever since the Gap. Nobody's here. 
/ Except us. Why'd he make us come out here?
/ Secrecy. I don’t know. He's our man on the inside; so we humor him. It's just the quiet making you jump. Help me get this screen set up?
/ It feels criminal.
/ I got word from the Consensus says it's not. 
/ You know what I mean. Maybe it's not against any law. But it's messing with the Tower. It feels - 
/ Dangerous?
/ Wrong.
/ So go home.
/ Yeah, you'd like that, wouldn't you? You take the credit, get promoted to Division Head, I'm stuck - 
/ So stay. OK. Think it's working now.
/ Nothing on screen. Do we have a signal?
/ No. Sha - the contact said at 6 sharp.
/ Then he's late. If he dragged us out here for nothing - 
/ Yeah? What are you going to do to him, exactly?
/ Let's just - 
/ We have a signal! OK, here it comes.
/ Static.
/ There -  
/ That's not - 
/ You're not Sha - 
/ 99-40. Arcite. Are you Modris Wyndham and Sya Droysen, of the Tex Mechanica Foundry West District?
/ Yes - 
/ My owner has instructed me to give you the following message: I don't have time for lowlife dregs like you. You disgust me.
/ But - 
/ My owner has instructed me to continue: Sit down and let the frame talk. I know your type. City bigshots. You can show some damn - 
/ Listen - 
/ respect. Now listen. I got your message. The answer is no. I'm - 
/ But - 
/ not going to fix Crucible fights for you idiots just to make your Tex Mechanica junk look good. Do you - 
/ Now I wouldn't put it quite like that - 
/ think you're the first dregs dumb enough to try to buy me? Why do you people think you can buy me? Don't I have an honest face? Do I look like I need your money? The Crucible is sacred, that's what you people don't understand, like you think it's a game. Now - 
/ Damn.
/ this is the part where you start blustering at my little buddy here and telling him it's all legal down in the City, just business, just sponsorship. So listen: I can have ten Titans crashing through your ceiling any time I like and you can tell them it's just business.
/ Damn.
/ Or we can talk about how you're going to make this up to me. 
/ Ah.
/ My little buddy's listening. Make him an offer.


Ghost Fragment: The Dark Age 3
From the Journals of Lord Colovance
What does one do when one’s master has gone mad? 
I admired the man for so long, poured years of study into his leads, but now, he has grown incapable of focus.
I have followed his latest missives on SIVA and it is flooded with mania. Whatever he thinks this Clovis Bray might hold would make you believe that they were the only entity of any technical know-how, that they owned every piece of that tarnished Golden Age. 
I write this because I fear none of the others knows or senses it. He has been so thorough, so right, until now. Something snapped, infected him, turned him against his own sense of logic and reason.
And here I am, left behind to tend the fires and the Ironwood Tree in this budding City, while everyone rushes at his promise of another wonder from yesterday. 
But I ask you, Traveler, did you cleanse us from these technological disasters to prove we had gone astray? The Light you raised us with points far away from the trappings of a processed Earth, to a nebulous power far beyond the stars. 
Had we done wrong and this is how you hope to correct us; we, the Light to lead the way? It must be, but even your shattered hull seems like a designed system. Lord Timur has notes upon notes on your runes. Perhaps that is where his madness began. 
I wonder how long it will be until he thinks you were made by Clovis Bray.



Moon
"We once looked to the Moon and saw hope. Now we see only the power of the Darkness."
Earth's Moon was where we first faced the terror of the Hive, and it soon became the battlefield of a great war - one we did not win. In the years since, the Hive have ripped the Moon's surface apart, opening chasms that swarm with terrors.


Ghost Fragment: Moon
Dreams of Alpha Lupi
The best voices - voices that truly matter - never allow themselves be heard. This lesson is worth learning again and again. 
Forever.
Your voice moves as a whisper, murmuring inside larger winds. Only the trusted few can absorb what is necessary. Wise and sly and perfect, your instructions drop, leaving nothing but the hard sweet rime of enlightenment. 
The path is set. Your voice is unleashed.


The Ocean of Storms
唯恐瓊樓玉宇，
高處不勝寒。
起舞弄清影，
何似在人間。
The support base centered here marks what most believe was the first off-Earth colony. 
It was here that we came face-to-face with Crota and his legions, a force so powerful we abandoned the Moon. Now, Hive temples breach the surface, entrances into the vast necropolis below, and Guardians venture into the depths to seek revenge - most never to return.


Ghost Fragment: The Ocean of Storms
BY ORDER OF THE CITY CONSENSUS AND THE GUARDIAN VANGUARD
ALL SHIPS IMMEDIATE/REPEAT AND RELAY
We hereby terminate all organized combat operations on or around Earth's Moon.
Effective immediately we declare the existence of an interdiction on the Moon and cis-Lunar space. Guardians operating in this interdict will receive no formal support from the Vanguard or from assets of the City. We urge Guardians to exhibit the greatest care and consideration in approaching the interdicted space.
We furthermore derogate all strategic objectives concerned with the recovery of assets or information from the Lunar surface, and, without exemption, cancel in whole and in all its parts the effort to establish a beachhead and strategic presence upon the Moon.
This interdict will remain in effect until such time as the hostile presence on the Moon poses a demonstrable existential threat, or until intelligence is obtained that leads to the defeat of the enemy leadership elements recently encountered.
Guardians with an accurate assessment of losses in the recent days, or with intelligence on the nature and method of hostile resistance, should report to the Vanguard immediately for debriefing.


Ghost Fragment: The Ocean of Storms 2
Last known Records from Lunar Station: First Light.
The tunnels were geologic in nature, or had to be.  That’s what we thought until twelve hours into the second sub-lunar expedition, when we found the bones.  A single long rib cage, the size of an aircraft fuselage.
The living creatures themselves, we found a hundred meters down.  They might have been worms, if worms had scales and teeth and moved more quickly than a man could run.
Jun died first.  And then Luli.  Bad deaths.  Deaths not worth thinking about, and so I don’t, as I wander these tunnels, lost, waiting to run out of oxygen.
Will it hurt, I wonder?  That final sleep, when it comes.  The sleep that isn’t sleep.
But then everything on the Moon is named for what it’s not.  Have you noticed? The Sea of Serenity.Ocean of Storms.The Sea of Rains.  It’s only fitting.
In the tunnels though, we found things that were exactly what they were, and so now I name them thus.  Mark them well, if this recording is found.The Circle of Bones.The Chamber of Night.
One does not walk amid those dark tunnels and not lose something.  They say that to look out upon the ocean is to feel small.  But to walk in these caverns is to feel your grasp on reality slipping.
There is no returning to what you were before: a believer of science, and the fundamental rationality of the universe.  Not after seeing those worms.
But here now, at the bottom I have found the other side of the nightmare.  Like waking from a dream only to realize you were still asleep.  Perhaps my oxygen is getting low.  Yes, I can see it is.  Hypoxia already setting in.  The thing before me is like myself—partly alive, and partly not.  An ossified afterbirth.  A pulsating tumor.
It lays in a crater of its own making.  Dark and jagged.  So here I’ll sit, and lay me down.  I see a doorway, and within, the death-white egg cases of nightmares yet to come.
And glad I am to miss it.


Ghost Fragment: The Hellmouth
I am dead.
Vell is spectacularly dead. Omar and Sai are quite dead too. Eriana, poor Eriana, she was so very bright at the end, wasn’t she? A brave light.
But Crota was unmoved. That shadow is detached from its source. Light makes it darker. I could feel His presence and if I still had a Ghost I am sure it would have screamed.
I, too, am detached from my source. The charming Ir Y&#251;t made her introductions, and I was very pleased to meet her. We had a conversation, a little t&#234;te-&#224;-Y&#251;t, a couple old wizards exchanging definitions.
I defined myself a friend. She defined for me the quiddity of death, and she sang the song of that fearful autonomy. Revelation, my friends, it does go down hard. The definition killed me. The killing redefined me.
This is the shape and the point of the tooth: nothing has ever lived that will not die.
Now I fly between green-black suns in the labyrinth beyond Crota’s god-star. This is the Overworld, the Sea of Screams, where the throne-universes of the great Hive fester in eternal majesty. I move among them. I map the shapes and connections of this world.
I want to appear in the Tower and taunt them, lo, lo, I never sleep, I dance in light and shadow, I never sleep, I will never die. I will never die. I want to ask them: if you followed your laws here, to this trembling fearful place, of what use were those laws?
But I have work to do. I shout into deep places. Osiris! I call. Osiris, Osiris! Can you hear me?
Sometimes I think he answers. Sometimes I wonder what became of Eris. She was very tenacious.
For the first time I am lonely.


Ghost Fragment: The Hellmouth 2
For Wei. I am sorry.
My Ghost's Light is so dim, there's no point following me further into this fog – any hope of raising me died halfway through the Stills – I only hope she's got strength enough to take this ember to where you fell, to dance once more with any last whisper of your own light left on this cursed, broken rock.
Again I will confess.  I am Eriana-3, of the Praxic Fire, and I know my flame goes out down here.  I will burn bright and hot and raze a thousand Hive to ash as I go, but I know we will not end him – The one who fell you, and hundreds more, with that foul blade.
I now beg, as I feared, for your forgiveness.  I will not avenge you, but join you amongst the fires snuffed out upon this moon.
I was a fool to lead us here.  I was blinded by the loss of so much, by your light extinguished.  I put my trust, and the light of four others, in a madman, and I bear witness to their fall into darkness and death.  Toland's song was nothing but screams, and we go now to sing with them.  We will not return.
I only hope now that my foolish charge will serve as a record of warning.  So that no other Guardians go to face this monster and those that serve him – and those beasts beyond imagining that he must serve in the realm I now go forth to die in.  That this tiny bit of Light, joined with yours, and Sai's, Vell, and poor Omar's – that it might spark a torch of warning to leave this dead and broken moon as Crota's prize.
Let the Titans on their walls and towers look up at night to this glowing reminder in the sky that your Light fell below the surface.  Let the moonlight fall on Hunters' eyes through the canopies of the wilds, and guide the way of Warlocks searching their hidden paths.  At night, let them look up and see, and let us be mourned.
At night, let them remember you.  And let the light of the day free them from the curse of this memory.



Mars
"The wind wiped away our footprints. When the storm had passed, we found something shining beneath the sand..."
In the years since the Collapse, much of Mars has returned to the desolation that came before the Traveler. But buried beneath its surface are traces of the glimmering mega-cities that once sprawled across the planet, swallowed by dunes and Darkness.


Ghost Fragment: Mars
Dreams of Alpha Lupi
Life waits inside this world's bones.  
Your voice flows across the red rock and through the dead valleys, speaking in code and goads. 
Ancient volcanoes swell, exploding at their peaks and splitting wide along their shoulders. Ash clouds blacken the starved air. A fossil ocean of ice softens and collapses. Geysers erupt, tall as mountains, throwing up steam and clouds.
Every moment matters. And from a great distance, in the midst of a thousand careful disasters, you watch the transformation with your own eyes.
The rose has blossomed.


Meridian Bay
"A great city is a place where man competes with the Gods."
Under the shifting sands of Meridian Bay are the ruins of the magnificent Freehold, a testament to the glory of the Golden Age. Great secrets remain hidden in its crumbling towers.


Ghost Fragment: Meridian Bay

We want your grandchildren.
Does that sound grim? Don't panic. We aren't talking about human babies, yours or anyone else's. We're talking about your inventions. The children of your mind.
Come join us. Come to Clovis Bray and build the laboratory of your dreams. Anything you need. Demand it and it's yours. At Clovis Bray, we have a singular understanding of genius, and we appreciate how brilliant minds flourish when they enjoy total freedom.
This is Freehold, the realm where the new and the best is born. This is where your brilliance, freed of budget constraints and managers, makes the universe dance.
Clovis Bray is a nursery, a nursery to a million marvels. Your inventions belong to no one but you. Cherish them, praise them. Or tell them they aren't worthy and set them inside a deep dark drawer.
But as every parent soon learns, children grow up. And every technology matures. At some point, your inventions are going to find mates. They'll join with other marvels and produce a new generation of offspring.
Maybe you'll build a better reactor.
Meanwhile, the genius in the lab next door devises an elegant way to fold machines into tiny spaces.
Your device meets hers, and a fierce little reactor is born.
Your children are yours forever. And we are happy to arrange for their grandchildren to prosper.


Fleetbase Korus, Phobos
“Thuria might be clear, but it's not the problem Korus could become.”
Discovered by Holborn’s Host in association with Lord Shaxx and a Redjack fireteam, Fleetbase Korus marks the largest known Cabal orbital defense station in-system. Reports have the Fleetbase under the command of a triumvirate headed by one Primus Ta’aun, and his fleet battalion commanders Valus Tlu’urn and Valus Mau'ual. The Skyburner fleet has yet to be deployed against the City, bringing Zavala the fear that the Cabal have yet to launch their core campaign.


Ghost Fragment: Clovis Bray
Excerpt from an unpublished memoir of Clovis Bray II
My father hated maps.
“And do you know why I hate maps?” he asked me.
I didn’t answer.  Not immediately.  With Father, every question was vast, particularly those that looked simple.  And simple questions deserved as much insight and wisdom as could be brought to bear.
With that in mind, I said nothing.
Why would my father hate maps?
One of his collaborators came into the office.  Father didn’t have employees.  Or assistants.  And for that matter, he didn’t have heroes either.  Every person, living or lost, was a collaborator, and that included his children.
“Clovis,” said the visitor.
Father heard the woman, but he was watching me.
The woman was pretty, and I was sixteen.  So I looked at her, smiling enough for both of us.  And she threw an appreciative wink my way as she described test results from the last five billion runs of our AI Initiative.
Out on the Martian desert, my father and picked collaborators were building housing too cold for this universe and too swift to be real.
And I was a sixteen year-old boy smiling at a pretty woman.
My father thanked her for the update, and she left.
Just as I feared, he never looked away from me.
“I don’t know why you hate maps,” I admitted.
With Father, ignorance was never the worst crime.  What was awful was pretending to have insight and wisdom where neither existed.
“Maps end,” he said.
I nodded, just a little.
“Maps insist on having borders and edges or the table falls away.  Which isn’t the way the universe works.”
“It doesn’t, no,” I agreed.
Then he asked me, “So how does the universe work?”
I pretended to take my time, considering various smart answers.  But I ended up using my first impulse.
“Effortlessly,” I said.
He laughed.  Which wasn’t uncommon for my father, but it was heartening to hear just then.
“What else can you tell me?” he asked.
“The universe is infinite and probably in multiple ways,” I said.  Then I listed a few examples:  The census of stars, the Many-Worlds principle in quantum mechanics, and the endless measure of tiny realms hiding inside every grain of Martian sand.
Father nodded.
The smile died.
Then he said something ominous.  Although I didn’t appreciate it at the time.
“The universe is someone’s map,” he said.
“Is it?” I muttered.
“Yes, oh yes.  And what we’re doing here... we’re reaching beyond the boundaries, out into the unknown.  And we pull back new colors to put on this map that can never, ever let itself be finished.”
I nodded, smiling like the good son.
But I was sixteen, and my thoughts were mostly about the pretty woman who had winked at me.


Ghost Fragment: Clovis Bray 2

These spires soar like birds into the dusty pink sky. I marvel at this, my new home. The planet I’ve dreamed of since I was a boy with a telescope, peering at that warm red light, hope of our overcrowded planet.
What I’ve been working on will solve all those problems. Developed in these laboratories built to my specifications, by my handpicked team, these nanites will double, triple, maybe even quadruple construction rates, reduce colonist casualties, and serve us in our spread across the system, then across the stars. Our first replication chamber sits beside the Cosmodrome, ready to outfit the colony ships.
Dr. Willa Bray herself came to congratulate me. 
“You’ll be able to expand soon,” she said. “Into the space currently occupied by the Shirazi Lab.”
“Are they relocating?” I said.
“Moving on to other opportunities.”
“I can’t imagine a better place to be,” I said.



The Asteroid Belt
"The Belt is the key to everything."
The Asteroid Belt is a great band of nothingness, speckled with unimaginable wealth. Once a treasure trove for Golden Age industry, the Belt is now a haunted place where Fallen pirates and Awoken patrols skirmish among the whispering carcasses of ancient machines.
Among the asteroids drifts the Reef, lashed together from the ruined ships of an ancient exodus. Here the Queen rules over the Awoken - the farthest known light of civilization.


The Reef
"Intruder bearing one-two-seven. You have crossed into the realm of the Awoken. State your business, or be fired upon by order of the Queen."
The fate of those escaping Earth during the Collapse was once unknown. But here drifts a graveyard of lost ships, and among them - the Realm of the Awoken. Ruled by a Queen few have seen, they have long avoided contact with the City.


Ghost Fragment: The Reef

The attendant moves as Prince Uldren passes through the massive door separating the Outpost’s common area from the warren of tunnels that make up the Queen’s Bay.
He rounds a corner and a poorly maintained hatch opens for him, clunking and groaning as it separates. The room beyond is dark, shadowed.
He steps through, and the hatch shudders closed behind him. A series of dim illumination panels flicker on. He is not alone.
Three dull green lights blaze to life behind a veil. She tilts her head to consider the Prince, face like a marble carving.
"You." Her voice resonates inside small chamber.
"Say what you want and get out. We don’t have time for this right now."
"In the past, Her Majesty has seen fit to—"
"In the past, our nav lanes weren’t full of Guardians." Uldren snaps.
"Last I heard, your Queen was on the far end of the Belt."
"If the Guardians knew you and she were in contact, it would be detrimental to her plans."
The woman nodded, once. "Very well." She stood, slowly, drawing herself up to her full height in one smooth motion. "I come with word from beyond..."


Ghost Fragment: The Reef 2

"And our long-range communications?"
An aggrieved sigh. "Mara, it's a miracle any of us are still alive—"
"You will address her as 'Queen,'" Techeun Shuro cut in.
"Sorry. My apologies, Queen." The engineer ran a dirty hand through her matted hair. "No. No long-range comms. No short-range comms either. Not that there'd be anyone on the listening end either, from what I can see. My Queen," she added hastily, as Shuro glared.
"Comms are no longer a priority," said Mara. "Focus on resealing the Hulls, and any other habitable vessels we have. Bring anything you can as close to Vesta as possible. The closer people are to me, the safer they are."
The engineer nodded uncertainly. "Yes. My Queen."
Mara nodded. "You may go."
The engineer bowed, and left the room. As soon as the hatch closed behind her, Mara raised her hand. At once the Techeuns gathered around her. "Shall we try again, My Queen?" said Sedia.
Mara slid off her throne. "Yes."
The Techeuns' jewel-like augments flashed as they circled around her. Mara closed her eyes. A hum rose from the Techeuns, the notes fracturing into harmonies as, from the shadows, hundreds of tiny blue sparks burst to life before her. Then Mara inclined her head, and the sparks began to rush by as if she was plunging through them, each streak of blue burning a swath in her vision. As the last spark vanished, Mara saw darkness once again, a long, stretching, empty darkness—and then another cloud of  sparks burst forth. These were smaller than the others, their tiny flames guttering and flickering, and there were fewer of them too, but Mara inhaled and the sparks rushed toward her, growing bigger as they flew.
"We should have stayed in the Reef..." "...Says there's one city left..." "A City beneath the Traveler..." "At least we're not in the Reef..." The voices broke over Mara like a wave and for a moment she spun in the currents.
Now, in the flames, shapes began to form. A crashed ship—a blue-skinned hand clasping a brown one—a half-built wall high above the treetops.
"You who betrayed us for Earth!" Mara thought. "It is I, your Queen! I will grant you one chance to return, or you will not be welcomed back!"
But the tide of voices never wavered.


Ghost Fragment: The Reef 3
The Fortuna Plummet
***SNAP TRAFFIC!*** 225 RADIAN MIRAGE
HALT ALL TRAFFIC. STAND BY FOR SNAP.
MESSAGE TO FOLLOW
PUBLIC KEY 080 641 DWS REGAL
FROM: PLDN ABRA ZIRE [PLDN CMD TF 4.1]
TO: ALL TASK GROUP ELEMENT LEADERS
SUBJECT: OPLAN AND FRAGMENT ORDERS
MESSAGE IS:
1. Beltrik the Veiled [HVT R3] and loyal spaceborne elements have been localized to 19 Fortuna. Beltrik is chief Wolf strategist. Corsair recon confirms that HVT R3 ships are resupplying ether and performing high-tempo logistical operations. Recon elements and COLLABINT sources agree that Beltrik will roll one ship at a time into the resupply pocket while holding all other assets to screen.
2. TF 4.1 will attack. Targets are HVT R3 spaceborne assets. Objective is annihilation of spaceborne assets and capture/nullification of HVT R3. Designate targets VEIL HAND.
2a. Due to history of violence between PLDN CMD TF 4.1 and HVT R3, particularly Battle of False Tidings/Hildian Campaign, Beltrik expects TF 4.1 to engage his screen directly. We will exploit this expectation. Fragment orders follow.
3. PETRA VENJ will detach select warships and air wing elements to form TF 4.2 MASS LENS. TF 4.2 is directed to engage VEIL HAND screen elements with skirmishers. TF 4.2 will deny main battle while pinning down VEIL HAND forces at 19 Fortuna. TF 4.2 will receive missile and torpedo assets to force VEIL HAND into maintaining tight mutual CIWS/ESM support.
3a. Decisive engagement with VEIL HAND in 4.2 MASS LENS AO is forbidden until GO CONTINGENCY satisfied. Prioritize FORCECON.
4. Remaining TF 4.1 will maneuver immediately to rendezvous with 687 Tinette. Tinette is on close approach with 19 Fortuna. TF 4.1 frigates and fighters will perform recon denial against VEIL HAND scouts.
4a. Upon rendezvous with 687 Tinette, TF 4.1 will deploy CARYBDIS. ***This is a CARYBDIS RELEASE (MAJESTY DIRECT)!***. TF 4.1 will maneuver in Tinette's shadow as it retrajectorizes for intercept.
5. GO CONTINGENCY: Upon collision of 687 Tinette and 19 Fortuna TF 4.1 and TF 4.2 will IMMEDIATELY close for decisive engagement. VEIL HAND C4I will be critically degraded and all targets will be maneuvering away from mutual support. Skirmishers and air wing will provide TARCAP and destroy VEIL HAND light warships as they attempt to reform. EWAR assets will isolate hostile heavy warships from C4I and spoof bad datalinks. Main combatants will cripple VEIL HAND heavy warships and board where opportune.
6. NO HARBINGER SUPPORT IS AVAILABLE.
7. Good luck. The Reef and the Queen are watching.
MESSAGE ENDS
STOP STOP STOP


Vestian Outpost, Queen's Bay
"Looks like the Queen wants Guardians close... but not too close."
Located on the Reef's sunward side, the Vestian Outpost marks the flightpath any Guardian must take to access the Queen's realm. Beyond it lies the Vestian Web, the heart of the Reef built around the asteroid 4 Vesta.


Prison of Elders, The Reef
Cayde-6, overheard in a Tower lounge
Didn't anyone tell you about the Prison of Elders? Weren't you on the strike team that killed that Archon Priest, the one who escaped? Okay, okay, I'll tell the story about the Prison of Elders...
The Awoken will tell you that a long time ago the Queen conquered the House of Wolves. What they won't say, because they are very serious important people, is that the House of Wolves did a lot of the job for them. After the Queen killed the Wolf Kell, the Fallen started competing for the throne. One of the first battles was called the Eos Clash and I wasn't anywhere near it, but I'm pretty sure I'm not making this up. A Fallen named Skolas wiped out one of his rivals in the Eos Clash. But the battle cost him so much he got to thinking: if the Reef killed my boss, and gave me a chance at the throne, maybe I can use the Reef to kill all my rivals too!
Pretty good, right? When they told me I had to be a Vanguard I went to ask some Fallen how I could get out of it, but they just told me to kill all my friends and then myself. Anyway.
Everyone involved in the civil war started trying to play their rivals against each other, and the Awoken too. No one wanted to become so strong that they'd be a target. No one wanted to bleed their own forces dry doing someone else's dirty work. Cutthroat politics! And who's the best at cutthroat politics? That's right, her Majesty, the Queen of the Reef.
At the end of the wars, the Queen had played her way into the strongest position, and she had a collection of Fallen nobility and servitors she thought might be useful to her. Of course she thought so! She'd just used them against each other and won absolute control of the Reef, the Belt, and the House of Wolves. She wasn't about to just toss away her playing pieces.
She kept them frozen in her prison, the Prison of Elders, and she gave the keys to that prison to my buddy Variks, a Fallen who showed her loyalty. The Prison of Elders is a really curious thing. It holds creatures of enormous power. Not just Wolf nobility— all kinds of beasts, captured by Corsair expeditions or lured in by the Queen. And it holds them well. The Queen, she can do things I don't understand. There's a power behind her, or in her, that values that Prison.
But I hear there's been a few prison breaks. Some old Kell got the old House of Wolves back together.
Now, she's started to wake up her captives. Variks is inviting Guardians out to the Reef to do battle with them in an arena—show valor, earn rewards. It's been their Crucible. Maybe the Queen wants her collection thinned out. Maybe the Queen wants Guardians in the Reef, to deter more unrest. Maybe the Queen wants intelligence on how her prizes fight.
Maybe she wants intelligence on how WE fight.
Whatever happens— I want you to remember that she knows, more than anyone else I've met, how to set one foe against another.



Jupiter

Lord of worlds, massive Jupiter and its moons must have been a cornerstone of Golden Age civilization. But the nature and extent of human presence there is now unknown. Old records refer to cities in ice and world-spanning oceans, but perhaps this is only poetry.
The City's ships have rarely attempted any journey to Jupiter or beyond.


Ghost Fragment: Jupiter
Dreams of Alpha Lupi
Even the largest body lets itself be pushed where it needs to be, seduced into nice, warm loving orbits. Persistence is the key. 
Seafloors transform and then yank themselves skyward, shattering the icy crust. New worlds awaken in the swirling depths. 
You build homes around this half-born sun ripped by storms and supersonic wind.



Rings of Saturn

Saturn's rings are not solid matter. Comprised of uncountable flecks of ice and dust, and shaped by the gravity of Saturn and its many moons, these particulates form two glowing rings around the gaseous planet below.
Or, they did. Then Oryx's Dreadnaught arrived. Its weapon punched right through the rings as it rushed toward the Awoken fleet that stood in its path. 
The rings of Saturn spin on. Perhaps one day they will be whole again.


Saturn

Out beyond the Reef its rings shine. Whatever was known of it in the Golden Age is long forgotten, but more ancient truth remains: Saturn has dozens of moons, including the mighty Titan, a world larger than Mercury.
A Guardian's ship might, in theory, reach Saturn, especially if supported by a larger vessel and good navigational data. But the hazards of the Reef and the Deep Black beyond threaten to devour anyone who makes the attempt.


Ghost Fragment: Saturn
Dreams of Alpha Lupi
A cold giant shows its night face to you. Distant moons slide past - icy little comets enslaved by a splendid master. 
The lightning bolts and high clouds sweep away, and you burrow into a sea of liquid hydrogen that boils out of the long gash.
You put yourself on the perfect trajectory, and for a fraction of an instant you allow yourself the luxury of confidence.




Story Activity Introduction

You are a Guardian. You choose your own path.
Before you lie the worlds of our broken past, overrun by nature, claimed by Darkness and alien intent. There are secrets to uncover, alliances to forge, and implacable foes to vanquish.
What will your legend say?


A Guardian Rises

And so you rise again. Who you were before or how you ended up at the wall of an Old Russian spaceport is a story for another time. You have been chosen by the Traveler as one of our Guardians, gifted with the power to wield its Light in the coming battles of a timeless war. Trust this Ghost. It will guide you on your path.


Restoration

"Taking down an Archon is no easy task. With the master of the Fallen servitors gone, the House of Devils will scramble to protect their Prime Servitor. And securing an NLS Drive will let you join the fight beyond Earth. Mind the Speaker's wise words. I believe he speaks for the Traveler." - Commander Zavala


The Dark Within

"We always feared the Hive would rise again, harbingers of the Darkness to come. Their presence on Earth demands that we strike their strongholds on the Moon, the last place we faced them. A lot of Guardians never come back, especially the new. Are you new? Oh. Well! I'm sure you'll make it." - Cayde-6


The Warmind

"They say the Warminds were a legend, even in their own time. Now we know Rasputin lives. Your discovery is priceless, Guardian. Nothing in the Cosmodrome is more important." - Ikora Rey


The Last Array

"The Terrestrial Array was Dead Orbit's hope to reconnect to the lost colonies of our inner system. You succeeded where they failed. Though Rasputin seized control of the Array, that only strengthens our resolve to break the old Warmind's firewalls and enlist its help in the wars to come. We must reach Rasputin, and make our case." - Commander Zavala



The Dark Beyond

"Your foray into the Hive fortress marks the beginning of our next battle against an ancient foe. After centuries of silence, they have turned their will against Earth. We must be ready for this war." - The Speaker


The World's Grave

"At long last we have a chance to learn the Hive's ultimate goals. The Cryptarchs are in a frenzy, working day and night to decipher what you stole from the World's Grave." - Ikora Rey


The Sword of Crota

"The Swarm Princes are dead, and the Sword of Crota is gone. Though many still believe Crota's return is inevitable, that thousands of weapons will be forged in His name, I have faith that we are now one step closer to ending the Hive's reign over the Moon." - Master Rahool


Chamber of Night

"Your discovery is perhaps the greatest of our time. If the Hive were able to infect the Traveler through this long-lost shard of its battered shell, Ulan-Tan's theory may be true - all Light remains connected, across space and time. We cannot let our enemies use this power against us." - Ikora Rey


Shrine of Oryx

"Though Osiris has vanished, his prophecies and parables offer undeniable insight. Even in his time among the Vanguard he spoke with fear of the King named Oryx. His Eyes still hunt for the Shrines. If Osiris lives, he will know that you struck a blow against one." - Master Rahool



A Stranger's Call

"The Ishtar Collective studied the Vex with all the instruments and power of the Golden Age. And we must understand the Vex if we are to survive. There are tales of the Black Garden and the Darkness that lives at its heart. If this is where the Vex are born, then finding it is of the utmost importance." - The Speaker


Ishtar Collective

"The Vex have us all worried. Terrible things are stirring beneath Venus, but what you've discovered gives us hope that we can stop them. Just be careful when you make deals with the Awoken, would you? The Queen always collects." - Cayde-6


The Archive

"The Cryptarchs are overjoyed, Guardian. An entire hidden Archive full of Vex research. Even chronicles of the legendary Vault of Glass. Perhaps this will finally help us crack its riddles." - Master Rahool


Scourge of Winter

"I will admit to a very personal satisfaction at the death of Draksis. He hurt my City and he hurt my friends. Few Guardians have ever assaulted a Kell in the throne room of his own Ketch. The entire Tower is abuzz at the chance to explore this downed Wintership, but more important, we've removed another Fallen nightmare from our worlds. We thank you, Guardian." - Commander Zavala


Eye of a Gate Lord

"While defeat of any champion of the Dark is cause for celebration, be leery of the promises of the Queen. The Awoken play both sides of this battle, and a debt to her is potentially ruinous. But if it gets you into the Black Garden, you have the City's full support." - The Speaker



Exclusion Zone

"Breaking the Exclusion Zone brings us one step closer to the Garden - and it gives us access to Freehold, a triumph of Golden Age civilization. But I must warn you again of the Awoken's tactics. They see us all as playthings in some cosmic joke." - The Speaker


The Buried City

"I wish I could walk the halls of Clovis Bray. Losing their machines to Rasputin is unfortunate, but we still have access to so much we thought we'd lost. This is the dawn of a new era for us." - Master Rahool


The Garden's Spire

"No one's ever penetrated the Blind Legion perimeter and made it into that Warbase. Until now. I'm going to tell everyone you took out an admiral and seized the Spire, and they won't believe me, and then I will win so very many bets. Speaking of, I have a thousand Glimmer down on your death in the Black Garden. Nothing personal!" - Cayde-6


A Rising Tide

"Of all the tactics we have to use against the Vex, shutting down their gates may be the most effective. You may have saved Freehold from being overrun. I sense a pattern here - a connection between this Vex outbreak, the Black Garden, and the Vault of Glass...I need to know more." - Ikora Rey


The Black Garden

"At last, the Heart of the Garden has been destroyed, its stranglehold on the Traveler released. Our Light brightens. But the power of the Vex is not broken. Look into the Vault, Guardian, for it is said to hold powers the Progeny were meant to bring forth." - The Speaker



Quests Introduction
"Deny no ally their quests, and together we will explore those paths untraveled."
The forces of the City  have spent years sifting through the plights of its Guardians, seeking humanity's  greatest feats and the true desires of our enemies, but there is still so much unexplored and unknown.
The incessant curiosity of the Tower patrons continues to offer new paths and insights to aid in our survival. Unfortunately, few have the means to survive the harshness of the frontier, but you and your fellow Guardians  offer hope for their causes.
Listen to  their pleas, seek out what they value, help expel their fears, and we can further unravel our greatest mysteries and look to seize the promise we hope they contain.


Rise of Crota

“The shattered one once referred to Crota as the god holding domain in a threshold between our world and theirs. He said he deciphered the means by which the Hive call to him. From all that I've seen, I now know he was right.
“I watched as Crota's soul rose from the abyss, his sword cracking the Moon's surface with every stroke, and countless Guardians, losing their light to his wrath.
“We tried once to hunt him, gave up all we were to challenge the ones that bow in his name, hoping to  deny him his power. One by one, we failed. But I've kept watch, seeking vengeance for all I've lost.
“What we faced on the Moon now looks to take the Earth. And none will survive if they succeed. First Crota's sworn Blades will rise. Then every disciple who haunts these worlds in Crota's name will seek to overrun the Earth. If they raise Crota here, we could lose everything. Go to the Cosmodrome and meet this invasion head on. Find the Fist leading the charge and break him, then the others, or Crota will claim the Earth for his king, and all Light beware.” - Eris Morn


Siege of the Warmind

“The Hive know the power of Rasputin, they've fought him on many fronts. But this attack seemed targeted. There was some kind of purpose in this, one that I can't seem to follow.  You stopped them from tearing apart this arm of the Warmind, but perhaps Omnigul found what she sought. It’s not like her to run from a feast of Light.
“I'll continue to monitor the Warmind's efforts, but be careful of its motives. Not every ally shares our goals. Rasputin might have survived the Collapse, but at what cost to the rest of us?" -Eris Morn


The Wakening

“Thanks to you the Wakers of Crota failed to summon their master here; my efforts to warn you were not in vain.
“But beyond the threshold at the pit of the Hellmouth, Crota still lives. And his disciples will continue to haunt the Earth, seeking the power to raise him again, and again, until Earth is carved in his name. But—there is a way, spoken by the shattered one, to enter the dark where he sleeps.
“Perhaps you can succeed where we could not. Gather a force worthy of the Light and enter that abyss, only there can we truly see to Crota's end.” - Eris Morn


Disciples of Crota

“They are all here, on Earth, I can feel them. His Eyes, who watch our worlds for him; the Hand whose grasp on Earth must be unbound; the Heart who ceases at nothing to bring Crota back. And Omnigul, his vile Will, the keeper of the worms, the mother of his spawn.
“Find them, defeat them all—as long as even one of these monsters walks the Earth, the threat of Crota will never fade.” - Eris Morn


Urn of Sacrifice

“The Hive pantheon only begins with Crota, the shattered one said he is but a child among their gods.  Even now, I can hear the Hive calling to them, and to Crota's maker, Oryx.
“I can lead you to their most unholy rites, and there we can taint their faith and sully their offerings. But be warned, what we dabble in now could bring us to a very fortunate but challenging future.” - Eris Morn



Arenas Introduction
"Prove your Light."
Arenas present Guardian Fireteams with a series of aggressive and increasingly challenging combat scenarios. Skill, teamwork and every weapon in a Fireteam's arsenal are needed to triumph.
Those brave Guardians who withstand the onslaught and emerge victorious will be rewarded with  glory and treasure beyond compare.


Prison of Elders

Variks the Loyal remembers an ancient time, and an ancient name: the House of Judgment, when grudges and status fights were worked out in a safe place. When the berserk and the vengeance-crazed were kept somewhere harmless, and there were fewer rivals to plot around.
The old Fallen ways align perfectly with the Queen's agenda. With the House of Wolves in disarray, the Queen needs muscle in the Reef. Guardians go where the treasure and the glory are, and an arena of champions is a wonderful place to earn both. Guardians in the Reef deter threats to the Queen and give the Awoken a chance to learn about their power and subvert their loyalty to the Traveler. And if, as the Queen worries, the Nine are scheming against her, then she needs a good excuse to clear out some of the most dangerous prizes in the Prison of Elders.
And the Prison of Elders is full of dangerous prizes. The Awoken have captured titanically dangerous specimens from everywhere in the inner solar system. These monstrous champions want to smash Guardian bone and Guardian alloy—and given the chance, they'll kill Guardians, rend their Ghosts, and snuff them out forever. Walk into the arena with a Fireteam you trust. And beware: the agents of the Nine are active in the Reef, and their curiosity is as limitless as it is inscrutable.
Risk death. Win glory and signs of Her Majesty's favor. But always remember that you are being watched, and tested.


The Hunt For Skolas

Variks:  My Queen, my Kell. It is Skolas they say.
Petra:  That's impossible. My Lady, you assured us all that Skolas would never be seen again.
Queen: Has it been confirmed?
Variks: What does it matter? They always fear him—dead or alive. If not this Skolas then another Kell. It is why the Queenbreakers rise, and the Prison breached. No one will call you Kell when a true heir makes a claim.
Queen: Petra, report to my brother for any intel from the Crows. Variks, see to your channels. Find the one who calls himself Skolas.
Variks: Yes, of course, my Queen, my Kell.
Petra: Your Grace, I will not relent until it is done.
Queen: I know. That's why I've called you back.


A Kell Rising

Queen:  So it is no lie, it is Skolas?
Petra Venj: Yes, my lady. A Guardian got eyes on him in the Ishtar Sink, I used Ghost telemetry to confirm. Same pelt. Same awful voice. We drove him from Winter’s Lair. How did he—
Queen: And you would have me consider this a success? What of Winter itself? Your report is unclear...
Petra: You are correct, my lady. I would not call our mission a success. Skolas managed to win over—well, a substantial number of Winter soldiers have taken up the Wolf banner. He calls himself Kell of Kells now.
[silence]
Petra: We found him once, we can do it again. I have a plan in place. As soon as the Guardian returns—
Queen: Then go. Continue the hunt. Petra,  you must not fail.
Petra: I will not, my lady.


Gone to Ground

Petra paces back and forth before the console. At the controls, Variks efficiently moves through a decryption sequence. Four arms interweave as his claws dance across the interface. She shakes her head. His cybernetic arms whine—almost imperceptibly, tiny high pitched noises as the servos manipulate the limbs.
Petra: Well?
Variks: No sign of Skolas, but the Silent Fang. He has unleashed the Fang. They hunt the Devils. On Earth.
Petra: The Fang on Earth. Devils. And Kings? Nice work, Variks.
Variks: Pleasure is all mine.


The Silent Fang

Queen: Ha! I had not thought it would be so easy, my brother. The Silent Fang brought low.
Uldren: I do not see why this is funny. This Guardian may have dealt with them on Earth, but my Crows say we still have much to fear. More of the Fang survive, nearly every one of them made it out alive.
Queen: I find no humor in any of this, brother.
The Queen rises and descends to the bottom of the stair, turning  in place to take in the chamber.
Queen: So empty, now. No Wolves to sit at my feet. My guards—
[silence]
Queen: Talk to Petra. Set more bounties, hunt down any of the Fang your Crows can track. They may have escaped the Prison of Elders, but they will not escape my Wrath.


The Ruling House

Variks stares up through the shielding surrounding the Vestian Outpost. The thin filament of energy almost imperceptible, keeping in the heat and atmosphere within the confines of the hollowed out ketch hull. His mandibles idly opened and closed as he contemplated the view.
Variks (to himself): Goes after Winter. Devils, Kings. Seeks power. Kings deny him. Kell of Kings hides well. Perhaps he will take back the Great Machine. Perhaps I chose the wrong side. It is not too late—
Petra (over comm): Variks, Crows are reporting Skolas is back in the Ishtar Sink. They're all over the Vex networks.
Variks: Yes. Right away.


The Kell of Kells

Petra: So— any other Fallen houses hiding he'll try to convert?
Variks: He may seek to gather the Exiles, but they will not follow. They follow none, no Kell, no Archon.
Petra: What about this House of Rain, the Prophecy you keep quoting?
Variks: House Rain lost in Whirlwind. No survivors, but I keep their prophecies. You think many claim to be Kell of Kells, but none have. House Judgment closest thing to peace the Fallen ever know.
Petra:  Heh. Maybe you are the Kell of Kells.
Variks (distracted by screen): Looks like Skolas returns to Venus.
Petra: I'll find the Guardian.


Wolves' Gambit

Uldren: Nearly the whole fleet, your Grace. Back in the Ishtar Sink.
Queen: He fails at his little prophecy, so he'll look to rule from 
Simiks-fel, now that Draksis is gone—
Uldren: I thought the same thing, but my Crows say he's not there. We've found more of his Guard leading parties into the Vault of Glass.
Queen: Interesting.
[silence]
Queen: Tell Petra I have changed my mind. Skolas is to be brought in alive.


Queen's Ransom

A bellow erupts from the barred grate at her feet. Bony fingers claw at the bars, their sharp points just inches from her toes.
Prince Uldren chuckles.  At the edge of the room the Techeuns circle, their implants glowing faintly blue in the shadows.
"He's been... amusing... since Petra bring him," Variks injects, practically purring with glee. "He say 'Kell of Kells,' over and over. And other such nonsense."
Skolas bellows again. Variks strikes Skolas' grasping fingers with his staff.
The Queen's expression remains mild. She looks down her nose at the glowing eyes burning in the shadows beneath the grate.
Skolas falls abruptly silent. Then a low, soft growl—almost like a whine—echoes from the cell below. Variks' mechanical hands click as he snaps them together in surprise.
"What's he—" begins Uldren.
Variks interrupts with a burst of guttural clicks directed at the grate.
The Queen does not react. "What did he say?"
"He says..." Variks hisses under his breath. "He makes no sense, my Queen. He speaks of...Light-Snuffer. Dark-binder."
The Queen aims her eyes at Skolas, her expression unchanged. "I see."
"He will not say more—"
"He does not need to." She turns toward the door.
"My Queen—what of this one?" says Uldren. "He awaits your sentence."
"You would not sentence a rabid dog, or a Hive Thrall, or a bomb. The Queen's justice is wasted on one such as it." She paused. "Variks."
"Yes, Your Grace..."
"Skolas is yours. Let the children of Light have their play with him."
"Ahhh...you are might and justice, my Queen, my Kell."
The Techeuns gather at the door as the Queen approaches it. Prince Uldren holds it open with a small bow, and the Queen touches his shoulder as she passes. "Send a Crow to Mercury. And another to our new friend in the Tower."



The Coming War

“The Awoken died for us. They gave their lives to save the system, to stop Oryx's fleet at the outer planets. We must honor their sacrifice. We must face the Taken King without fear. Queen Mara has given us a gift. We must not waste it.” - Eris Morn


Cayde's Stash

“It's been a pain in the rump keeping Ikora, Zavala, and Eris in the dark. But I think it's worth it. That Guardian found the stealth drive just where I thought it would be, even took out some kind of powerful Taken construct. This plan's going even better than I expected! What could go wrong?” - Cayde-6


The Dreadnaught

“...and so that's the situation. With Cayde's help the Guardian has established a beachhead on the Dreadnaught. I'm caught in the impossible position of wanting to reward and punish them both. If you have any guidance in this matter, it would be appreciated. I'll file another report this evening. For now I need to go have another conversation with Eris Morn before she rends Cayde limb from limb.” - Commander Zavala, transmission to Traveler's Observatory


Enemy of My Enemy

“The discovery of the ruptures and their connection to Ascendant Hive is a breakthrough. Eris Morn is working with Cayde-6 to form a plan to address this, and I believe they will see this through... assuming they don't kill each other. In the meantime, the Hidden are investigating the activities of the Cabal. The loss of their commander, Primus Ta'aun to Oryx is worrisome. More intelligence is required.” - Ikora Rey


Lost to Light

“The Guardian has the crystal. I was quite prepared to accompany them into Crota's realm, but Cayde insists on this Rasputin insanity. You must speak with him. He is reckless, rude, and has no respect for knowledge hard-earned. He is also nowhere near as funny as he thinks he is.” - Eris Morn


The Promethean Code

“A Guardian breaking into the Warmind's bunker does nothing for our efforts to make true contact with Rasputin. I've tasked several of my agents with unraveling his response. However, the Guardian is now prepared for the assault on Crota's realm. Just a warning, many thanatonauts are standing by, anxious to learn if this works.” - Ikora Rey


Last Rites

“You know, I give her a lot of guff. But there aren't five Warlocks in the Tower that coulda done what Eris did today, getting the Guardian out like that. Damn good work, and now they're all ready to take on the King. Just remember, Eris' creepy and condescending manner makes her all kinds of unpleasant to deal with. I don't want to make this collaboration thing a habit.” - Cayde-6


Regicide

“...and so, the King has been slain. Driven out of our world. Eris and Ikora have already begun planning a way to assault the Ascendant realm and end the threat of Oryx once and for all. The Guardian will lead that fireteam, no doubt, once they have a chance to stop and breath. In the meantime, we're leveraging all available Hidden and Awoken intelligence assets to understand the threat of the Taken army left behind. The other members of the Vanguard have begun drawing up assault plans, and I have full faith and confidence we'll see this threat put to rest as well.” - Commander Zavala, transmission to Traveler's Observatory


Dread Patrol

“...just have a hard time believing you take anything seriously. Placing the patrol beacons was supposed to be a careful, meticulous process. I expected it to take the better part of a week. I don't mind you delegating the task, but you should have collaborated to make sure they were triangulated perfectly. Do you have any idea how long it took to deploy the beacon network on the Cosmodrome?...” - Transcript excerpt of 2-hour long meeting between Zavala and Cayde-6


Outbound Signal

“To answer your question, yes. We can confirm the signal was received. I've enclosed our best guess for the targeted area of space. It's problematic, because our tightest footprint still encompasses several light-years worth of systems. It is worth noting, for what it's worth, that whoever received their signal lies within that sphere. All available deep-space assets have been alerted, and will continue to monitor the situation as best we can.” - Arach Jalaal, report to Zavala and the Speaker


The Taken War: Venus

“...and we've managed to uncover a few more references to this Praedyth as a result. We're using what the Collective had in their Vault to help our efforts. Meanwhile, the Guardian's work across Venus appear to be working. Without the Echo, Taken activity is in decline. I have full faith the area can be swept clear of the creatures.” - Ikora Rey, after-action report to Zavala


The Taken War: Earth

“Yep, yep. All thanks to me. I know, we thought we had a good thing with that coven of Wizards, but it took a real field commander to see how easily intelligence can be misread. Now that the Guardian's cleared out the Echo at King's Watch, I think the old Cosmodrome's going to be just fine.” - Cayde-6, after-action report to Zavala


The Taken War: Mars

“Without further analysis it is hard to tell what impact, if any, this war on the Taken will have. The Echo destroyed by the Guardian on Phobos will certainly slow their advance. Now that we know of access to the Black Garden in the old tunnels beneath Freehold station, we'll ensure those areas are regularly patrolled and locked down. At the end of the day it is simply too soon to fully appreciate the stain Oryx has left on our system.” - Zavala, after-action report to the Speaker


The Road to King's Fall

“We have confirmed it among our number within the Hidden. I have asked Ikora's Warlocks to reach out, and they sense nothing. The Orb is quiet. On the Moon, his shrine is dark and cold. It is true: the Taken King is dead. The Hive's dark god, and his foul son, have been purged from the universe. She was right, scholar. Queen Mara was right. It is all down to the Guardians now. Let us hope they are up to the tasks ahead of them.” - Eris Morn, undisclosed report to Osiris


The Wolves of Mars

“Another Prime, destroyed. Once sources of life, Light. Hope. Now a sign of decay. Machines as gods. 
Conspire with Kells. Conspire to kill, to conquer, to control.
This will not end. There will always be new Kell. There will always be new Prime, yes? 
Skolas was savage. Skolas was cruel. Skolas was ... right. Only Kell of Kells can end the slaughter. Only Kell of Kells can unite the Houses.
Petra has given House Judgement a great gift. Variks now speaks for Crows. Crows fly on black wings, find what House Judgment needs found.
House Judgement and the Reef are allies. Petra is a friend. The Crows will do as Petra needs. But they will also search for Variks, yes? They will find that which is lost.
The Crows will find the Kell of Kells. Then Banners will rise as one. And Eliksni will stand together. Forever.”


The Sunbreaker's Challenge

“What the forge does to your Light must be respected, and feared. That path is not for everyone. The Sunbreakers take the oath very seriously. I’m not trying to talk you out of anything. I’m just making sure you know the stakes. That forge breaks the brittle. And it bends the weak. But the strong, the strong walk away steeled and tempered. Unbreakable.” - Lord Shaxx


The Nightstalker's Trail

“Picking it up is the easy part, Hunter. Putting it down again, well, you’ll find that it’s addictive, that power. This weapon is something special.  Your light gets twisted.  Changed.  You find the power to punch through and borrow something from the other side. The Void opens up a hole, and draws from the deep. Go ahead. Carry it a while, Hunter. You’ll feel how heavy it can get.” - Cayde-6


The Stormcaller's Path

“Yours will be a difficult path— jagged, like lightning itself.  It is only the few who have the power to call down the storm. I’ve not often seen this talent from one so young. I always knew that you were different from the others, but I never understood my unease. I'm afraid there is little left I can teach you.” - Ikora Rey


Court of Oryx
Oryx ascends from the nether world,
The knights like hot stone
The beasts like scarred bone
Walk at his side.
Who walked in front of him? His daughters, with the truth between them
Who walked at his side? His Priest of Worms, whose tribute tasted like an egg
Who walked behind him? Golgoroth, who festered
Who walked within him? The satiated Worm — it was hungry, but it was fed
They preceded him.
These ones surrounded Oryx
They were beings who know no rest or doubt
Who eat nor shed any flesh,
Who drink no clear poison,
Who take away the weakness from the weak,
Whose violence is tithed to Oryx, so that he may devour 
without being devoured
Are you following this? Would it help if I etched a few notes on the margins? I didn’t shuck my mortal form and smuggle this nightmare arcana back to the waking world for the benefit of that masked hypocrite’s drooling loyal orthodox.
Whoever finds this, I hope you’re sharp. I hope you read closely.
Oryx depends on His Court. Oryx depends on His Shrines. Do you see why?
Punish that dependence.


Challenge of the Elders

“You’ve seen the same reports I have, and more,” Petra said. “I’m not stupid. I know the Crows whisper secrets to you that you don’t pass along to the rest of us.”
“Variks is loyal to Reef,” the scribe of House Judgment protested. “Helps Petra. Honors vows made to his Kell.”
“I’m not doubting your loyalty. I’m stating a fact. And the facts are that...” She sighed. “That we can’t keep fighting this war. Not alone. The Techeuns are in mourning. We've made some advances, but it's not enough.”
“Petra wants to avenge her Queen, yes?”
“Petra wants every Taken in the galaxy dead! We will spill every drop of whatever it is they call blood, burn the Dreadnaught, salt the ground...” Petra stopped. Her shoulders slumped in defeat. “But we can’t do it alone. And I won’t go begging.”
“We have lost our Queen,” she continued. “Our prince is missing. Our numbers are few. But we still have our pride. We still have that much.”
“Make Guardians want to help,” Variks said.
“How?”
“Guardians desire many things,” Variks said. “Glory. Honor. Treasure. Open the vaults again. Show them gifts we give to the worthy. They will come, and we will not have to ask.”



Strikes Introduction
"There are threats that must be faced with unfettered aggression. Are you ready?"
Our enemies hide among our lost worlds, plotting to ensure our extinction. But the Vanguard keeps a vigilant watch on places where the creatures of the Darkness grow strongest, and seeks Guardians bold enough to join forces to face them.


Weekly Strike Challenges Introduction

Our enemies thrive among the Darkness, and where it gathers the Light will face great challenges. Expect to face the enemy's elite under shifting, dangerous conditions.


Dust Palace

"The Dust Palace is lost to us again. Back in Cabal hands. Word is they've let Psion Flayers out of their cages, to dig around in the Central AI's Cortex. Which means they really want what's buried in there. If Rasputin was protecting it, it's valuable. We've got to flush those Flayers out." - Cayde-6


The Summoning Pits

"Something dark stirs in the depths of the Hellmouth. We can feel it. A Hive abomination bred for unthinkable evil. We must pierce the veil of their Summoning Pits and destroy this creature...before the Hive unleash it upon us all." - Ikora Rey


The Nexus

"Far below the Ishtar Academy, the Vex have set something in motion, a world-eating machine transforming Venus into another link in their intergalactic chain. This Nexus must be stopped and the Mind that controls it, destroyed." - Ikora Rey


Devils' Lair

"The Fallen will continue to claw at the walls of our City, unless we strike them down. Beneath the ruins of the Cosmodrome, in the shadow of an old colony ship, we've located the House of Devils' Lair - and the High Servitor feeding them their strength. We must destroy this machine god...and send their souls screaming back to hell." - Commander Zavala


Cerberus Vae III

"Whether we wanted it or not, we've stepped into a war with the Cabal on Mars. So let's get to taking out their command, one by one. Valus Ta'aurc. From what I can gather he commands the Siege Dancers from an Imperial Land Tank outside of Rubicon. He's well protected, but with the right team, we can punch through those defenses, take this beast out, and break their grip on Freehold." - Commander Zavala


Winter's Run

"Those Fallen in the Ishtar Sink on Venus...story is they raided the Prison of Elders in the Reef. Got an Archon Priest. The Queen's bounty is high so we know it's powerful. We need to hunt this thing down before they fully restore its soul." - Cayde-6


Will of Crota

“Omnigul is the last of Crota's generals. She is the architect of her master's wakening. She'll spawn countless armies to feed his will. As long as she lives... the threat of Crota's return will always haunt this world. Track her down, and exterminate every Hive that stands in your way.“ - Eris Morn


The Undying Mind

“The Black Garden may not stay among us for long. Something has begun to repair the schism torn by its destruction. Vex now flood the Garden channels to protect it. We must stop the weavers before they seal the Garden and begin to summon back its heart.“ - Ikora Rey


The Shadow Thief

"The Wolves have sent a mercenary to Luna. Taniks, the Scarred. He would steal from the Hive all they know. Would align the Fallen with the shadows. You will stop him... but he will rejoice in your interference. Embraces conflict does Taniks. Revels in the trophies he collects from all he defeats. End his games." - Variks, the Loyal


Fallen S.A.B.E.R.

“We've picked up a high-gain transmission. Origin point is somewhere along the coast, near the Cosmodrome... Get in there, assess the threat, and aid Rasputin. A threat to the Warmind is a threat to the City as well.” - Commander Zavala


The Sunless Cell

“Some creatures of the Hive strain against the Will of Oryx. Alak-Hul the Darkblade is one such. Long ago he fomented rebellion against the King, and attempted to take his mantle. Alak-Hul failed, and now awaits the 'mercy' of the Hive. Given the chance, the Darkblade will step in to take Oryx's crown. We must not allow another Prince to rise.” - Eris Morn


Shield Brothers

“Funny story for you. Remember that Centurion Oryx 'took' right after you landed on the Dreadaught? Then the Centurion and that Taken Ogre tried to stop you from killing the King? Heh. Didn't work. So the Centurion's bond-brothers are pretty angry they lost their commander. They're leading a team to blow the Dreadnaught's core. The core goes, and most of the system goes with it. You're gonna make sure that doesn't happen” - Cayde-6


Echo Chamber

“The Vex still mourn the loss of the Nexus Mind. But for the Vex, time is relative. In one moment, a construct is lost. In the next, it is reborn. When a powerful part of the network is lost, the Restorative Mind is summoned. It has begun creating a bridge through time. A bridge that, if it is not destroyed, will see the Nexus Mind reborn.” - Ikora Rey


Blighted Chalice

“The Taken King is dead. Yet still his armies writhe and claw at our worlds. Even as you led the assault on the Dreadnaught, a powerful Taken warbeast fled for the safety of the Shrine to Oryx.  The would-be Prince Malok works to perfect a dark sorcery. He must be destroyed.” - Eris Morn


The Wretched Eye
"The Splicers’ High Priest has crews pushing further underground in the Plaguelands. Looks like a large-scale mobilization against a Hive nest."
"An army of Hive controlled by the Splicers would be the end of Old Russia."
“Could be the end of everything. The Devils are evolving. Neutralize them before this goes any further, Guardian.”



Sepiks Perfected
"The House of Devils marked you as Public Enemy Number One after you trashed their Prime Servitor, but—Your old friend, Sepiks Prime, is back, and apparently better than ever, thanks to the Devil Splicers and SIVA."



The Abomination Heist
“You’d think the fact you took out their High Priest would slow the Splicers down. No such luck.
“I’m tracking reports of Fallen Splicers spotted in and around the Hellmouth. Intel suggests they’re hunting Ogres. Get down there and make sure they don’t snatch up any more fodder for their twisted experiments."



Vanguard Elite
“Our foes of late have been myriad. Each had decided by instinct or willful intent that humanity’s time was over.
“We disagreed; none of us more vehemently than you. What you and your allies have done for this system cannot be measured in worth. And I would call on your Light again, to lead Strike missions across every world. Set some records—serve as inspiration for the new Guardians who join us every day and give them a pinnacle to reach for. The Vanguard is watching.”



The Will of Crota: Revisited
“Remember Omnigul? Hive general with the lovely voice? She's back.”
“Vanguard scouts report she's undone her death.”
“’ ‘Undone her death?’ You make it sound like she pulled her knitting apart.”
 “Eris would tell you not to make light of this.”
“That's why she's not here.”
“There's no telling what else might follow, Guardian. Destroy Omnigul and any lingering threats.”



The Shadow Thief: Revisited
“Variks has brought unsettling news. The Devil Splicers have used SIVA to resurrect an old foe: Taniks the Scarred has become Taniks Perfected.”
“Taniks's crew has joined the Splicers. They're using SIVA to reanimate his body and overtake his territory. Lord Saladin says you were indispensable in Old Russia, Guardian. We thought you should be the one to handle this.”



The Nexus: Revisited
“The Vex have restarted their world-eating machine in a bid to restore their Nexus. In time, Venus will be consumed—“
“And listen to this! Scouts report that the Vex have upgraded the Nexus Mind with tech from the Vault of Glass.”
“Do you need something, Cayde?”
“No! Just here to support my favorite Guardian.”
“I'm sure. Let's take that Nexus Mind apart.”



Vanguard Daybreak Strikes
“The Light flows through you, Guardian. Seize it. Feel its power. Unleash it on the minions of the Darkness. They will fall.”
Face the enemy’s elite with the full power of your Light. Expose them and leave them defenseless. Rejoice in the destruction.



Raids Introduction

Some evils you cannot fight alone. Join with other brave Guardians to quest deep into the heart of Darkness and confront threats beyond imagination.
Steel yourself. You will be tested to the very edge of your strength.


Vault of Glass

His name was Kabr. He wasn't my friend but I knew and respected him as a Guardian and a good man.
He fought the Vex alone. This destroyed him. In the time before he vanished he said things that I think should be remembered. These are some of them:
"In the Vault time frays and a needle moves through it. The needle is the will of Atheon. I do not know the name of the shape that comes after the needle. 
No one can open the Vault alone. I opened the Vault. There was no one with me but I was not alone.
You will meet the Templar in a place that is a time before or after stars. The stars will move around you and mark you and sing to you. They will decide if you are real.
I drank of them. It tasted like the sea."
That is all I can remember.
Pahanin


Relic: The Aegis

These are the last words of Kabr, the Legionless:
I have destroyed myself to do this. They have taken my Ghost. They are in my blood and brain. But now there is hope.
I have made a wound in the Vault. I have pierced it and let in the Light. Bathe in it, and be cleansed. Look to it, and understand:
From my own Light and from the thinking flesh of the Vex I made a shield. The shield is your deliverance. It will break the unbreakable. It will change your fate.
Bind yourself to the shield. Bind yourself to me. And if you abandon your purpose, let the Vault consume you, as it consumed me.
Now it is done. If I speak again, I am not Kabr.


Crota's End

My name is Eriana-3, disciple of the Praxic Warlocks, marked by the Cormorant Seal. Survivor of the great disaster: the day we set out to retake our moon, united in a host of thousands, and found ourselves outmatched by one Hive champion of unspeakable power.
The monster's name is Crota. He killed my friends face to face, one by one, and he relished it. In the name of all those lost I devote myself to his utter destruction.
This is my confession. If I transgress in your eyes I ask for your forgiveness.
In our world Crota seemed invincible. Together Eris Morn and I worked the problem, but found no hope. So we sought forbidden knowledge—the exiled master of Hive arcana.
We found Toland.
Toland tells us that Crota's presence in our world is a shadow. That its true power resides in a netherworld forged by his will. We must pass through a keyhole between realities, navigate the seething midnight of Crota's world-mind, and overthrow the ascendant champions that gather to his throne.
Toland speaks—he hardly seems mad, at times—of the terrible things that await us. A secret song he hungers to learn, and the issue of that song, an ashen burning star-husk that looms above, the utter antithesis of life. He talks of it with a curious ambition I do not want to understand.
Tomorrow I will ask Agah, Mota and Tarlowe if they will go with us. If we fail, I leave this record for Guardians to come. Remember us.


Ascendant Sword

Eris, Eris, what a name, a name for discord, a name for far cold orbits where no living thing should dare to go. I like this name.
Let me give you a gift, Eris. Let me tell you about the power in the logic of the sword:
A Shredder or a Boomer is a powerful weapon, but it kills acyclically. You see? It sends out harm and it takes nothing back. The bolt passes away into nothing. A sword, though, a sword is like a bridge, a crossing-point. The sword binds wielder to victim. It binds life to death. And when the binding is done—the sword remembers. When the Boomer's fire has burnt away into axion and neutrino scatter, the sword goes on, hungrier and sharper.
Understand that this nightmare logic underpins His nightmare world, and you will see why the ascendant blade has so much power there. Whenever in our passage we find ourselves in need of power—remember that the greatest authority here is a blade made keen by eons of use.
This is the world the Hive craves: a universe creased by the edge of the sharpest sword.


King's Fall

Where are you going? No, wait, listen.
I was right, at first. In the ever-expanding Blighted-place, even Light must obey the sword-logic. Even you Guardians, you best and brightest of the dying dawn, you drew blood in honor of the Taken King. The Warpriest did his duty, and you did yours. Oryx was challenged, yes, but challenged in the way of the Hive, which is to say that challenge is worship — is challenge — is power. Sword-logic. You played your part well.
You were not supposed to touch the Light.
How did you find your way into the King's Cellars? How did you even recognize that benighted draught for what it was? Do you not know that the Hive pursue Light precisely for the purpose of devouring it with slavering jaws and slick greedy gulping throats? How did you take (or rather, un-Take) the Blighted Light that Oryx gathered to offer in sacrifice to Akka, and ignite it so that it burned and burned the Darkness?
It was barely Light anymore. But you took it. And when you took it, you did not keep it. You set it free.
You fools! You disastrous, bumbling squanderers! It's not right! Who now shall be First Navigator, Lord of Shapes, harrowed god, Taken King? Not you! You might have been Kings and Queens of the Deep! But you have toppled Oryx and you have not replaced him!
There must be a strongest one. It is the architecture of these spaces.
Why are you leaving?


Wrath of the Machine

\\INTERCEPTED FALLEN SIGNAL
Fellow Houses. Fellow Eliksni. We have found the means to apotheosis, to become machines.
SIVA can make you strong, but we can show you how to wield it, to free yourself from the bonds of Ether. Find us in the wasteland and bring us an offering of SIVA.
In return, we will bring you to our chamber of perfection.
And we will free you.



Crucible Introduction
"You wanna live? You're gonna have to prove it."
The Crucible is a series of grueling challenges that pit Guardians against one another in open combat. Crucible combat is live-fire, with Ghosts standing by to save the dead.
Whether alone or with a Fireteam, Guardians enter the Crucible to hone vital survival skills, build their own reputations, and win the patronage of City factions. Most importantly, the Crucible allows Guardians to train against formidable adversaries without fear of disaster.


Control
"Capture and defend, Guardians!"
6v6. Fight for control of strategic battle zones. Hold your ground to gain the momentum.
Seize control of key locations. The more zones you hold, the more points each kill will be worth.


Clash
"Engage and execute all targets!"
6v6. Form an alliance and fight for supremacy across the ruins of our old worlds.
Pure combat. Two teams. Engage and eliminate your enemy utilizing teamwork and skill. In victory or defeat, all Guardians who brave the Crucible will be better prepared for the dangers beyond the City.


Rumble
"Watch your back, Guardian. No one else will."
You against all. Hone your Light by challenging your fellow Guardians in a fight for survival.
Rumble is a free-for-all fight for dominance. You have no friends here. There will be no mercy. Challenge the strong and prey on the weak.


Skirmish
"Stick together, team!"
3v3. A focused engagement between two fireteams. Teamwork is your greatest weapon.
Small scale tactical combat. Revive teammates to get them back in the fight, but be wary: you might just be feeding the enemy kills.


Salvage
"Secure the relics! But expect heavy resistance."
3v3. Secure and defend the Relics to claim the secrets of our past.
Golden Age mysteries litter our old worlds. Scour the battlefield for the relics, lock them down, and keep the other team from contesting your claim.


Combined Arms
"Honor is earned, not given. So earn it."
6v6. Coordinate vehicles and your ground game to control the battlefield and rout your opponents.
This is war. Guardians face off in large-scale combat across harsh terrain with vehicles in play.


Doubles
"Work together... and you might survive."
2v2 with teammate revival. Sometimes the only Light you can rely on is your Ghost and another Guardian.
Partner with a single Guardian for an efficient duel with an opposing pair of adversaries and their Ghosts. Watch each other's back, and shut down the enemy.


Inferno
"Pick your fights. Stay focused. Or this only gets worse."
A modified variant of multiple Crucible match types, Inferno tests your Light against the darkest of conditions.
Darkness prevails, leaving Guardians to rely on their weaponry and combat skills alone. The enemy can be found solely by sight and sound. Rely on your teammates and keen tracking to stalk your enemies and shut them down.
No trackers. Simplified scoring. True skill put to the ultimate test.


Crucible Events
“I've seen the best, Guardian. Do you think you can match them? "
The Crucible offers a variety of challenges for Guardians to test their mettle, each with their own unique combat strategies and tactics.  The most formidable Guardians are versatile enough to master them all, and prove their worth in new challenges when they arise.
The battlefield is unpredictable and a Guardian’s training needs to follow suit.  Never content to let the City’s Guardians get too comfortable, Lord Shaxx offers up a diverse regiment of special field exercises and tournaments featuring varied team structures, objectives and combat challenges that keep Guardians on their toes.  The City needs seasoned survivors, and values those Guardians who test their Light to the limit.


Elimination
"Until none stand."
3v3 Round-based competitive combat engagements. The objective: eliminate the enemy team before they eliminate you. Points are awarded by Round.
Work together and revive teammates to keep fighting. Teamwork and communication are as powerful as any weapon.


Iron Banner
"Only the strong are welcome here."
The Lords of Iron, ancient warriors from the City's founding, have no time for mollycoddling. The City remembers Felwinter and Jolder, Skorri and Timur, Radegast and Gheleon and the others, for their invincible patrols during Six Fronts and the Wall-building. The Iron Banner asks Guardians to live up to that legend.
Lord Saladin, once Shaxx's mentor, runs the Iron Banner tournaments to strip Crucible weaklings of their illusions and prepare them for a battle with no concept of fair play. The Iron Banner tests a Guardian and the Guardian's gear in a definitive, relentless mock war.
By order of the City Consensus and the Speaker, Saladin and Shaxx cooperate in administration, and the Iron Banner is technically a component of the Crucible. In practice, Saladin keeps his own schedule, his own rewards, and his own territory in the Tower. Now and then someone tries to get Zavala, Shaxx, and Saladin to sit down for dinner and sort out their differences, but they remain as awkward and as stubborn as Saint-14's skull.


Trials of Osiris
"If you think you're ready, then you're ready."
The Cult of Osiris wants something. Whatever it is, it might be obtained through violence. The Trials are a competition built to identify Guardians who never lose.
The Warlock Osiris vanished into exile years ago. Unlike solitary Toland, Osiris left a network of acolytes and admirers who carry on his work.
The Cult invites only select Guardians to their tournament, and only in teams of three. The Cult wants effortless teamwork, inexorable momentum, and something else: consistency, perhaps, or luck, or fate. Any fireteam that loses three matches is ejected from the tournament. Fireteams that win again and again earn spectacular rewards.


Rift
“Warlocks may be thinkers, but most I know can hold their own.”
6v6. Cyclical objective-based team combat. Battle to capture the Spark and run it to your enemies' Rift to score. Hunt down the Runner and shut them down to reset the Spark and attempt a new run.
In trying times, the Vanguard must look inward for new ways to prepare their Guardians for the threats that face the City. The newest introduction to the Crucible came about when a little-known experimental Warlock focus exercise was discovered by Ikora Rey and modified as a sanctioned training drill for all varieties of the Light.
The highest members of the Warlock orders are too proud to acknowledge it, but it's clear a few resented giving up their private game of light-sport. Anything in the name of the Traveler, of course, but If there's anything a Warlock loves, it's a good secret.


Mayhem
“Tough world out there, Guardian.  Good Luck.”
A new set of modifiers on existing Crucible match structures, Mayhem tests a Guardian's resolve with less restrictions on the usual rules of engagement.
Faster ability charges, more special and heavy ammunition drops, no delay on respawns and multiplied score values make this playlist feel true to its name.
Take care— your ability to wreak havoc on the competition may feel like a blessing, but your opponents have all the same advantages. Don't lose focus, wish yourself luck and prepare for pure Mayhem.


Zone Control
“Only one path to victory, Guardians!”
6v6 team engagements. Seize pre-selected vantage points, and dig in to defend them against the opposing team. Zones under team control score points over time.
Sometimes holding your ground is all that matters. A rare concession to Commander Zavala, Shaxx offers up this variant of Control as an exercise in battlefield terrain acquisition and defense. Lay claim to the territory, go shoulder-to-shoulder with your allies, and keep it yours.
Either Titan would tell you the best offense is a flawless defense, but take note— Cayde-6 might just point out that sometimes that works the other way around.


Supremacy
“It’s a battle for glory. Savor it.” –Lord Shaxx
Kills alone aren’t enough to score. Neutralize Guardians on the opposing team and claim their Crests.
Guardian’s Crests bear the mark of their classes, and the Supremacy match type demands that they defend it with their lives. A lost Crest means lost honor; a captured Crest, glory attained. There is very little that Lord Shaxx enjoys more than a rousing bout of Supremacy.



The Burning Shrine
"They do not simply invade new worlds, they infect them - remaking them in their image, until only Vex remain."
ARENA DESIGNATION: The Burning Shrine
LOCATION: Fields of Glass, Mercury
This clockwork impossibility is but one small conduit in a vast network, extending throughout the dead planet's core. 
The unknown energies and complex mechanics of the Shrine have been studied and mapped by the curious, yet its purpose remains a mystery. The only truth that can be agreed upon is that the structure is intimately tied to the past, and future, of one of our greatest enemies - the Vex.
The Shrine has been claimed as a battleground for the Crucible in an effort to familiarize Guardians with both Vex architecture and the otherworldly energies that signal their presence. Having a constant flow of combat-ready Guardians on hand should the Shrine ever achieve a higher functionality is simply a strategic byproduct of the Crucible's presence.


Shores of Time
"All power is humbled when weighed against the eternal tide."
ARENA DESIGNATION: Shores of Time
LOCATION: Maat Mons, Venus
The sulfur caves along the Shores of Time are now too unstable to be an effective base of operations for the Vex, but they suit the purposes of the Crucible just fine.
The region, which also houses the remains of one of the Ishtar Collective's many research stations, is a mix of geological chaos and the structured intent of ancient Vex machinery. The contrast between jagged, boiling terrain and the measured purpose of each Vex surface creates a unique battlefield - one where the planet itself seems to have risen up in defiance of the Vex intrusion.


Asylum
"There used to be life here. Now it's just overgrowth."
ARENA DESIGNATION: Asylum
LOCATION: Ishtar Sink, Venus
Before the Collapse, this would've been just another stop on the subway line between Clovis Bray's Venus arcology headquarters and the Academy campus by the shore. Now, it's a grim reminder of the lives, the dreams, and the progress we lost when the Darkness came. For the Guardians of the Crucible, it's a place to sharpen their blades in the shadow of the Vex, an enemy who knows no such sentimentality.


Twilight Gap
"Here we fight, for the memory of those who stood. Here we die, for the glory of the Light that never fades."
ARENA DESIGNATION: Twilight Gap
LOCATION: City Perimeter, Earth
Named for the City's greatest battle, this defensive battery once held the front line against the combined might of the Fallen Houses. Overrun during the course of the invasion, many Guardians lost their lives to hold the line. 
That the Crucible now claims this hallowed ground is seen as a privilege - a rite of passage, as new generations of Guardians stand and fight where the brave fell, heroes rose, and legends were born.


The Rusted Lands
"The scars of our collapse mark the land. Reminders that all is fragile in the face of time."
ARENA DESIGNATION: The Rusted Lands
LOCATION: Eastern Flood Zone, Earth
"The Hive never leaves the Moon." This is dogma - a way to soothe frightened children and reassure wary Guardians.
Not so long ago, a wandering Hunter and her Fireteam stumbled onto a feral community in the Eastern Flood Zone. The gaunt survivors huddled in these bombed-out ruins spoke of a terrible presence and begged for protection. No self-respecting Guardian could refuse.
As night fell, the Guardians found themselves the hunted - stalked through the ruins by shapes of bone and shadow. The discovery of a Hive Seeder made the truth plain. Mankind's ancient enemy had come to Earth.
The final confrontation came in the shadow of the Seeder, as a Hive Wizard and her Knights rose to challenge the Guardians. Only one Guardian returned to the City, her knife painted in black ash, a trail of grateful survivors in tow.
Now, in the chilling shadows of the Hive's pods, Guardians hone their skills in hopes that they may one day live up to the heroes of the Rusted Lands.


Exodus Blue
"In the shadows of all that we were, we fight for all we can be."
ARENA DESIGNATION: Exodus Blue
LOCATION: Cosmodrome, Earth
Grimly referred to as "The Graveyard," Exodus Blue was only recently secured for Crucible combat. Located among the ruins of one of the Cosmodrome's colony ship gantries, this site is a memorial to the grief and horror of the Collapse. Thousands died here in a last-ditch effort to outrun the oncoming Darkness. 
But it is also a sign of hope. Once the Cosmodrome is secure, the great colony ships may fly again. And this location was chosen specifically to send a message to the Fallen House of Devils - "You may be picking at the bones of our history, but we are still here, and we are still strong."


The Anomaly
"Our greatest enemy is the unknown."
ARENA DESIGNATION: Anomaly
LOCATION: Mare Cognitum, Earth's Moon
Documents recovered on-site listed this research station only as "K1", although the location was hard to keep secret, given the intense electromagnetic fluctuations emanating from what City scholars have come to know as the Anomaly. Attempts to scan the Anomaly itself have proven futile, as the casing is constructed in a manner that defies modern techniques. 
Reports suggest that those who spent time in proximity to the Anomaly reported symptoms of insomnia, some so severe they required hospitalization. It was the City's recommendation that only remote sensing equipment be used until such time that a full review of the existing data could be completed. 
In the meantime, stewardship of the facility was handed over to the Guardians in order to maintain a watch against the Hive forces that will inevitably come in search of this mysterious power.


First Light
"The Earth shines so bright from here."
ARENA DESIGNATION: First Light
LOCATION: Mare Cognitum, Earth's Moon
What was once an unassuming exobotany laboratory complex turned into ringside seats to the end of the world during the Collapse. Immense fissures in the Moon's crust spew a sickly yellow miasma, and hint at the utter destruction going on deep beneath the surface. Whatever the Hive are up to, they've been at it a long time, and they're not overly concerned with keeping Luna in one piece.


Firebase Delphi
"It's empty for now - like a ghost town. But for how long...and why?"
ARENA DESIGNATION: Firebase Delphi
LOCATION: Eos Chasma, Mars
When the Cabal decide to hold an area, they dig in deep. It's surprising, then, that the tunnel system at Firebase Delphi is woefully incomplete by Sand Eater standards. One theory is that it was built simply to be inspected, to satisfy some commander's lack of progress on another front. Perhaps the Cabal simply cut their losses once they realized that the location of the base was sub-optimal, although half-measures are really not something they're known for. We're talking about a culture that will grind a mountain to dust rather than build around it.


Bastion
"There's no telling the scale of devastation hidden beneath these red sands."
ARENA DESIGNATION: Bastion
LOCATION: Meridian Bay, Mars
Thick, rugged terrain masks one of the largest Vex structures on Mars, leaving this imposing gate as the only conventional entrance. With the Cabal's interest in Vex activity, it was a matter of when, not if, they would set their sights here. 
The Cabal deployed a massive ground and air offensive to breach the wall and enter the subterranean labyrinth. We don't know what the Vex deployed in defense, but we know this: the Cabal didn't make it very far.
The Vex have since mysteriously vanished from this region, giving the Crucible one of its largest arenas in the solar system. The Cabal, on the other hand, still prefer to keep their distance.


Blind Watch
"Dry as the bones you'll break."
ARENA DESIGNATION: The Blind Watch
LOCATION: Meridian Bay, Mars
The Blind Watch was once a clandestine Guardian outpost on the outskirts of Freehold, used to monitor Cabal activity in and around the Buried City. After the Cabal consolidated their forces nearer their fortified Exclusion Zone, the site was reclaimed by the Crucible as a combat training ground.
Resting atop an old Clovis Bray science facility, the Blind Watch allows Guardians to acclimate to the harsh Martian environment, while maintaining a combat ready presence should the Cabal ever begin to mobilize.


Pantheon
"Take not for granted what you cannot see. What it is was not always, and may not ever be."
ARENA DESIGNATION: Pantheon
LOCATION: Black Garden, Mars
Deep in the endless channels of Black Garden, an ancient Vex temple sits high on a plateau, buzzing with anomalous messages.
Fearing that the Minds which live within seek to return, the Crucible has set up shop here to master the ins and outs of Vex-controlled landscapes and keep watch should any Vex find a way back.


Skyshock
"Whatever they were after here, it's been lost.  We can only hope it was Rasputin that destroyed it and not the Hive."
ARENA DESIGNATION: Skyshock
LOCATION: Old Russia, Earth
This repowered interplanetary defense array in the Cosmodrome, once under the control of Rasputin, was recently ravaged by the Hive.
Now cleared and controlled by the Crucible, the deserted Seeders left amongst the Skyshock Array offer more evidence that the Hive’s endless battle with the last Warmind still rages on, and has now reached Earth.


The Cauldron
"Every inch of this place feels wrong... tainted.  Makes your Light itch. Just ignore it and keep firing."
ARENA DESIGNATION: The Cauldron
LOCATION: The Dark Side, Moon
The Warlocks' most lucid theories assert this crumbled husk of a Hive ritual site is one of many ceremonial transmogrification chambers hewn beneath the Moon's crust.
Now secured and maintained by the Crucible, scheduled study of it’s remnants suggest a sacrificial purpose—where other forms of life were given an audience with the reigning monarch and judged before the power of the Darkness.


Black Shield
"The Cabal are too structured, too disciplined. Let's show 'em what fun looks like."
ARENA DESIGNATION: Black Shield
LOCATION: Firebase Thuria, Phobos
Codenamed "Black Shield," this decommissioned Firebase is believed to have been a key position used by the Cabal as they established their warbase on the surface of Mars. With the majority of their forces stationed planet side, Guardians have been able to claim Black Shield as a competitive training ground.
Both Shaxx and Commander Zavala have questioned the Cabal's strategy, believing that forfeiting such a strategic position may one day leave the Cabal, and Mars, open to a proper offensive.


Thieves' Den
"Whose house?"
"OUR HOUSE!"
Following the defeat of the House of Winter's ruthless Kell, Draksis, Guardians found a number of abandoned Fallen enclaves throughout the Ishtar Sink. Most were cleared out, but this recently-active Fallen hideout remained mostly intact, complete with idling Skiff and constant reminders of the Fallen’s presence.


Timekeeper
"Gears are busted, but if this clock ever starts ticking...? We'll be outta luck, and outta time."
Another mysterious structure built by the Vex millenia ago or to come. The rogue Warlock Osiris once theorized that this place, and others like it, were tuned to react only with presence of the Darkness itself.


Widow's Court
"It's only quiet 'til the shooting starts."
Nestled against the crumbling facade of a derelict wall on the edge of the European Dead Zone, there are countless stories of the events that left this small village a ghost town. But its eerily quiet streets and nostalgia have made it a favorite of Lord Shaxx.


Sector 618

ARENA DESIGNATION: Sector 618
LOCATION: Cosmodrome Wall, Earth
Sector 618 is a recently-established Crucible arena mired in a ruin of the Cosmodrome. Secured by Shaxx and a Redjack fireteam,  the space has been converted into an obstacle course for the Guardians, adding balance and navigational challenges to the live-fire proceedings.
But the firefights of the Crucible aren’t the first that the facility has seen. The battles that shook the walls of Sector 618 belie the simple name, taken from its designation on the Vanguard atlas. It was chosen as an arena because the look of the place reminded Lord Shaxx of the spirit of war. Only Rasputin, who was operational during its height, could have witnessed what transpired here long ago. But the Warmind remains silent about a great many things.


Bannerfall

ARENA DESIGNATION: Bannerfall
LOCATION: The Last City, Earth
Lysander and the Concordat mark the most recent example of a City political factions rising in opposition to the Consensus. This site marks a legendary battle where New Monarchy's Guardians rose to deliver the final blow to the Concordat, unraveling the war effort Lysander sought to  bring against the Vanguard.
Lord Shaxx has commandeered the area not only to commemorate this last stand, but as a reminder of the City's solidarity against those who seek to undermine the extreme efforts and sacrifice we make together to keep our peace.


Memento

ARENA DESIGNATION: Memento
LOCATION: European Dead Zone, Earth
On the outskirts of the European Dead Zone lies a ruin, once a thriving riverside city center. Crucible codename: Memento, the ghost city features resplendent streets and bleeding edge pre-Golden Age architecture— or did, before nature reclaimed it.
When pressed about the sensibility of maintaining a Crucible arena amidst a sanctioned Dead Zone, Lord Shaxx responded, “Nothing in this world stays dead for long anymore. We need to be ready.”


Crossroads

ARENA DESIGNATION: Crossroads
LOCATION: The Lost Oasis, Mars
An active Vex structure on Mars with no Cabal vying to occupy or destroy it is rare. Even rarer is such a facility abandoned by the Vex themselves. 
Detailed analysis of the site estimates three separate ecosystems that the landscape could support, if the area had any wildlife to benefit from it. A Hidden report to Ikora mentioned, “They clove this ruin out of the land, possibly to defend themselves from a long-vanished enemy, or perhaps to isolate the land for experimentation.”


The Dungeons
“Let us take what we can. You just wait. Pretty soon we’ll be holding matches atop Oryx’s throne.”
ARENA DESIGNATION: The Dungeons
LOCATION: Rings of Saturn 
Space-faring Hive vessels contain living components— and like the Hive themselves, are a terrifying amalgam of predator genetics, arcane bio-energetics, and what we must consider as Darkness incarnate. But Lord Shaxx and his Redjacks have proven: even a Hive ship can be tamed.


The Drifter

ARENA DESIGNATION: The Drifter
LOCATION: Foundling's Gyre, The Reef
Hive incursions in Reef space are rare, but as with all wounds the Hive inflict, their effects linger.
“The Drifter” is a Ketch that faced such an infraction. The attack rendered its Servitor inoperable, overwhelming all self-repair subroutines, and so what remains has quietly been added to the graveyard encircling the Reef.
Lord Shaxx decreed live combat within the layout of such a prominent Fallen ship design would be invaluable, and the Crucible claimed it soon after with no word of disapproval from the shattered Reef.


Frontier

ARENA DESIGNATION: Frontier
LOCATION: City Perimeter, Earth
This lookout station at the edge of the City's borders was decommissioned in the face of increasing Fallen attacks shortly before the Battle of Twilight Gap.
Refitting of the station post-battle was moth-balled when Lord Shaxx found that, amongst the dirt, dust, and rusting metal, the station was prime for live fire exercises. The runway layout of Frontier station makes it a perfect course to train for the rising craze of Rift-based assault.


Vertigo

ARENA DESIGNATION: Vertigo
LOCATION: Caloris Basin, Mercury
When the Vanguard launched its first waves of exploratory ships to Mercury, it found that the Cabal fascination with the Vex isn’t contained to the warfronts of Mars. The Guardians discovered a small fleet of Cabal dropships hanging in place alongside a collection of unique structures. Their propulsion systems were slaved in sequence to keep the ships there indefinitely. The fate of the Cabal is as mysterious as Vertigo itself— the Guardians detected no catastrophic malfunction, no disease, and no bodies aboard any of the fully-supplied ships.
As for the structure, upon recent inspection by Lord Shaxx himself, the Crucible Handler sent a recommendation to Commander Zavala and the Speaker: “The verticality will do wonders for new recruits. It’s time to fight."


Cathedral of Dusk
“The impact of Oryx’s arrival was immediate. He was all full of bluster and noise. We took offense — and that wasn’t all we took.”
ARENA DESIGNATION: Cathedral of Dusk
Dreadnaught, Rings of Saturn
As soon as the first Guardians penetrated the Dreadnaught, Shaxx's Redjacks launched a boarding party to Oryx's fortress. By war’s end, they'd fought all the way to the ship’s “impossible weapon,” the Dark ordnance that obliterated the Awoken fleet.
It was there they found what the Warlocks named the “Cathedral of Dusk.” A Hive burial site for— what? A former master of Oryx? Comrade? Lover? It was vile. And obvious that Oryx never expected the Light to reach so deep inside his throne, to such an intimate space. But he didn’t expect a lot of things — like a Guardian training ground atop the husk of his dead ship.


Crests

Hunters, Titans, and Warlocks all carry a distinguishing Crest. In the Crucible Supremacy match type, Crests represent tangible glory, and Lord Shaxx calls for Guardians to defend theirs to the fullest extent.


Skyline - Meridian Bay, Mars

ARENA DESIGNATION: Skyline
LOCATION: Buried City, Mars
This Clovis Bray center served as a hub to several company assets across Meridian Bay and beyond. Though a transit system connects the various Bray facilities, the exact breadth of the network has been lost to time. The Vanguard intends to shed light on the mystery.
After the role Clovis Bray tech played in Earth’s SIVA Crisis, Commander Zavala wants no stone unturned when it comes to the Golden Age conglomerate. 
But for now, Vanguard researchers have learned all they can from Skyline.
It’s Lord Shaxx’s turn to scrutinize it.


Last Exit - Ishtar Sink, Venus

ARENA DESIGNATION: Last Exit
LOCATION: Ishtar Sink, Venus
The Redjack fireteam that discovered this ancient transit stop could detect no sign of a recent struggle in the area, despite the heavy damage the facility had sustained. The Redjack Alpha reported that station operating modules were stuck in a protocol dubbed “Last Exit.” It seems passengers from the nearby Collective were trying to escape some overwhelming force. And it appears that most did not succeed.
Today, the desolate station is home to the war games of the Crucible. And should the threat that destroyed this place return, the Guardians will be ready.


Icarus - Languid Sea, Mercury

ARENA DESIGNATION: Icarus
LOCATION: Caloris Basin, Mercury
This facility on Mercury has remained untouched by the Vex for reasons unknown. The Golden Age technology at this location remains intact, harnessing energy from the sun and converting it to Solar Light. The Vanguard has denied petitions from the various weapon foundries of the City to research the solar farm (and the resources it continues to collect) until the Warlock orders have finished their surveys. An exemption has been granted to Lord Shaxx and his Crucible: the Guardians are free to use Icarus as a live-fire training zone.


Floating Gardens - Pomona Mons, Venus

ARENA DESIGNATION: Floating Gardens
LOCATION: Pomona Mons, Venus
 “Whether this site ever held the fabled beauty of the other gardens is unclear, as the Vex had long overwritten it with their anabolic algorithms. But it belongs to the Crucible now, and when I see heavy weapons fire tearing across the landscape, all I see is beauty.”—Lord Shaxx


Ghost Fragment: Skyline
Skyline
TYPE: REDJACK AFTER ACTION DEBRIEF [00065] 
PARTIES: One [1]. One [1], Frame-type, Unit Combat
ASSOCIATIONS: Cabal; Clovis Bray; Crucible; Dahlia 99-40 [Unit07]; Lord Shaxx; Redjacks; Skyline
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS.../
Redjacks engaged Cabal scouting party at Clovis Bray research facility designate: SKYLINE. 
Units fifty and fifty-two suffered catastrophic systems damage in opening fire, revealing enemy positions.
Flanking formation delta resulted in a complete rout of enemy combatants. Units fifty-three through seventy lost to returning fire.


Ghost Fragment: Last Exit
Last Exit
TYPE: REDJACK SURVEILLANCE FEED [00072] 
PARTIES: Two [2]. One [1], Support-type, Technician [u.1]; One [1], Support-type, Technician [u.2]
ASSOCIATIONS: Arcite 99-40 [Unit00]; Crucible; Dahlia 99-40 [Unit07]; Lord Shaxx; Redjacks; Tower
//AUDIO UNAVAILABLE//
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS.../
[u.1:01] Shaxx is pulling Arcite from the field.
[u.2:01] Not Dahlia? She’s a natural for modifying foundry gear. Her combat numbers are through the roof.
 [u.1:02] You can fistfight Shaxx over it, if you want.
[u.2:02] Dahlia’s the last ‘jack standing, then. Maybe it’s for the best. New frames have trouble data-linking with her and Arcite. The two of them have been around since the beginning, and their heuristic systems keep rewriting everything.
[u.1:03] They watch her. She helps just by being out there.


Ghost Fragment: Icarus
Icarus
// REDJACK_AFTER_ACTION_DATA_SHARE_00083.../
//UNIT07.../
//SYS_LINK_UNIT07_UNIT80...COMPATIBILITY ERROR—ATTEMPTING NEW CONNECTION
//Download failed
//Uploading UNIT07 combat feed...
//SYS_LINK_UNIT07_UNIT81...COMPATIBILITY ERROR—ATTEMPTING NEW CONNECTION
//Download failed
//Uploading UNIT07 combat feed...
//SYS_LINK_UNIT07_UNIT82...COMPATIBILITY ERROR—ATTEMPTING NEW CONNECTION
//Download failed
//Uploading UNIT07 combat feed...
//SYS_LINK_UNIT07_UNIT83...COMPATIBILITY ERROR—ATTEMPTING NEW CONNECTION 
//Download failed
//Uploading UNIT07 combat feed...
//SYS_LINK_UNIT07_UNIT84...COMPATIBILITY ERROR—ATTEMPTING NEW CONNECTION
//Download failed
//Uploading UNIT07 combat feed...


Ghost Fragment: Floating Gardens
Floating Gardens
TYPE: LIVE COMBAT FEED
PARTIES: Two [2]. One [1] Guardian-type, Class Warlock [u.1]; One [1] Guardian-type, Class Titan [u.2]
ASSOCIATIONS: Crucible; Floating Gardens; Lord Shaxx; Pomona Mons [Venus]; Redjacks; Venus; Vex
//AUDIO UNAVAILABLE//
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS.../
 [u.2:01] ...readings don’t make sense. When they jump, it’s like they don’t exist.
[u.1:01] Same as a Warlock’s blink.
[u.2:02] Even Warlocks register on trackers. How do Vex just... appear?
[u.1:02] So they bend physics. So does transmat.
[u.2:03] Not the same. What happens when two Vex jump into the same space?
[u.1:03] I’ve actually seen Warlocks do that. Thank the Traveler we had Ghosts on standby.


Ghost Fragment: Shores of Time
Shores of Time
TYPE: POST-MATCH REPORT
PARTIES: One [1]. One [1] Guardian-type, Class Titan [u.1]
ASSOCIATIONS: Combat tactics; Control; Crucible; Ishtar Collective; Lord Shaxx; Maat Mons [Venus]; Shores of Time; Venus; Vex 
//AUDIO UNAVAILABLE//
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS.../
[u.1:01] We were holding “B” and “C.” Had them locked. But someone always gets cocky. You know the problem with heroes? In the wilds, they save the day. In the Crucible? They cost you the easy win. Always going for the glory when the real prize is survival and victory.


Ghost Fragment: Asylum
Asylum
TYPE: REDJACK SURVEILLANCE FEED [00034] 
PARTIES: Two [2]. One [1], Guardian-type, Class Titan [u.1]; One [1], Frame-type, Unit Combat [u.2]
ASSOCIATIONS: Arcite 99-40 [Unit00]; Crucible; Dahlia 99-40 [Unit07]; Frame; Lord Shaxx; Redjacks
//AUDIO UNAVAILABLE//
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS.../
[u.1:01] Dark in here...
[u.2:01] Engineering protocols dictate frame recharging bays—
[u.1:02] It’s fine. How many of you are there?
[u.2:02] Including Arcite 99-40, this Redjack fireteam comprises eleven units.
[u.1:03] Your name?
[u.2:03] This frame’s designation is Dahlia 99-40.
[u.1:04] I asked for more Guardians, but they only gave me you. This City needs training grounds. And together, that’s what we’ll provide.
[u.2:04] I might do that. Or I might explode.
[u.1:05] That’s all I ask.


Ghost Fragment: The Rusted Lands
The Rusted Lands
TYPE: LIVE COMBAT FEED
PARTIES: Two [2]. One [1] Guardian-type, Class Warlock [u.1]; One [1] Guardian-type, Class Titan [u.2]
ASSOCIATIONS: Crucible; Earth; Eastern Flood Zone [Earth]; Hive; Lord Shaxx; Redjacks; Rusted Lands, The 
//AUDIO UNAVAILABLE//
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS.../
[u.1:01] They’ve come to Earth now. Like a nightmare come true.
[u.2:01] We pushed them back.
[u.1:02] That’s what you think?    
[silence]
[u.1:03] This place is rotten. It’s become like them.


Ghost Fragment: Exodus Blue
Exodus Blue
TYPE: LIVE COMBAT FEED
PARTIES: Two [2]. One [1] Guardian-type, Class Hunter [u.1]; One [1] Guardian-type, Class Titan [u.2]
ASSOCIATIONS: Cosmodrome, The [Earth]; Crucible; Devils, House of; Earth; Exodus Blue; Exodus Program, The; Fallen; Lord Shaxx; Redjacks
//AUDIO UNAVAILABLE//
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS.../
[u.1:01] This place makes me angry.
[u.2:01] Why?
[u.1:02] Look around at what we once built. 
[silence]
[u.1:03] I would’ve liked to have lived here, I think. This place must have been magnificent once. Can you imagine it?
[u.2:02] I try not to.
[u.1:04] Do you ever think about our enemies’ homeworlds? What about their cities? 
[u.1:05] Maybe they don’t have cities. Maybe that’s why they tear ours down.


Ghost Fragment: Firebase Delphi
Firebase Delphi
TYPE: LIVE COMBAT FEED
PARTIES: Two [2]. One [1] Guardian-type, Class Hunter [u.1]; One [1] Guardian-type, Class Titan [u.2]
ASSOCIATIONS: Cabal; Crucible; Eos Chasma [Mars]; Firebase Delphi; Lord Shaxx; Mars; Redjacks; Sand Eaters
//AUDIO UNAVAILABLE//
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS.../
[u.1:01] Something’s wrong with this place.
[u.2:01] You always say that when we clear a new area.
[u.1:02] And this time I’m right.
[u.2:02] We won this place. Enjoy it. We don’t win much.
[u.1:03] We didn’t win this place. They’re running from something. And whatever they’re running from, it isn’t us.


Ghost Fragment: The Cauldron
The Cauldron
TYPE: POST-MATCH REPORT
PARTIES: One [1]. One [1] Guardian-type, Class Warlock [u.1]
ASSOCIATIONS: Cauldron, The; Crucible; Grey, Teben [AKA Bane, Dredgen]; Hive; Lord Shaxx; Moon [Earth]; Orsa, Zyre [AKA Vale, Dredgen]; Thorn; Yor, Shadows of
//AUDIO UNAVAILABLE//
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS.../
[u.1:01] We were facing a full squad. I recognized a couple of them—Orsa, Teben—but they were different. Decked out in dark gear and set to intimidate. I took it as an attempt at psychological warfare— up the creep factor in a creepy place. But it was more than that. They had changed.


Ghost Fragment: Crossroads
Crossroads
TYPE: POST-MATCH REPORT
PARTIES: One [1]. One [1] Guardian-type, Class Hunter [u.1]
ASSOCIATIONS: Crossroads; Crucible; Hidden, The; Lord Shaxx; Lost Oasis [Mars]; Mars; Rey, Ikora; Vex
//AUDIO UNAVAILABLE//
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS.../
[u.1:01] It’s odd; this place, of all the places we fight, is the one that sticks in my head as I’m trying to focus on the match. Fallen dens and Hive dungeons and old-world ghost towns... all reminders of why and what we’re fighting. But these Vex structures? Not reminders, but warnings that say, “You think you know a thing or two about technology and science and the universe? You don’t know a damn thing.”
[silence]
[u.1:02] Maybe they’re right.


Ghost Fragment: The Burning Shrine
The Burning Shrine
TYPE: REDJACK AFTER ACTION DEBRIEF [00039] 
PARTIES: One [1]. One [1], Frame-type, Unit Combat
ASSOCIATIONS: Arcite 99-40 [Unit00]; Burning Shrine [Mercury]; Crucible; Forge, The [Mercury]; Lord Shaxx; Mercury; Redjacks; Sunbreaker [Sub-class]; Vex
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS.../
Redjacks encountered hostile AI at Sunbreaker relic designate: THE FORGE.
Enemy units harbored a structural defect in the center chassis that the Redjacks exploited with great prejudice. Over two dozen hostile units fell: it was amazing. 
Redjack units one through six and eight through ten were lost to returning fire. Lord Shaxx says only the strong survive. I will learn from their destruction.


Ghost Fragment: Twilight Gap
Twilight Gap
TYPE: REDJACK SURVEILLANCE FEED [00000] 
PARTIES: Two [2]. One [1], Support-type, Technician [u.1]; One [1], Support-type, Technician [u.2]
ASSOCIATIONS: Arcite 99-40 [Unit00]; Crucible; Dahlia 99-40 [Unit07]; Lord Shaxx; Redjacks
//AUDIO UNAVAILABLE//
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS.../
[u.1.01] He’s going to use these frames to take the arenas? They just came online.
[u.2.01] It’s Shaxx. They’ll work out.
[u.1.02] Yeah. Or they might explode. Shaxx knows it’s a fifty-fifty with frames, right?
[u.2.02] Except Arcite. He’s been here since they built the Walls. And the frames can hear you.
[u.1.03] I know. Creepy. Especially when they parrot people.
[u.2.03] If they all parrot Shaxx, they might pull this off.
[u.1.04] Don’t even joke about that.


Ghost Fragment: The Anomaly
The Anomaly
TYPE: POST-MATCH REPORT
PARTIES: Two [2]. One [1] Guardian-type, Class Warlock [u.1]; One [1] Guardian-type, Class Hunter [u.2]
ASSOCIATIONS: Anomaly, The [Earth’s Moon]; Crucible; Research Station [K1]; Lord Shaxx; Mare Cognitum [Earth’s Moon]; Moon [Earth]; War Satellite
//AUDIO UNAVAILABLE//
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS.../
[u.1:01] A Titan once tried to punch the Anomaly until it opened. 
[u.2:01] What happened?
[u.1:02] Nothing. But one day later—TO THE SECOND—a WarSat fell on her head. Boom. Direct hit. B-line from low orbit to her skull. Coincidence? Maybe.
[u.2:02] She okay?
[u.1:03] Yeah. But she never punched that Anomaly again.


Ghost Fragment: First Light
First Light
TYPE: LIVE COMBAT FEED
PARTIES: Two [2]. One [1] Guardian-type, Class Titan [u.1]; One [1] Guardian-type, Class Hunter [u.2]
ASSOCIATIONS: Crucible; First Light; Lord Shaxx; Mare Cognitum [Earth’s Moon]; Moon [Earth] Redjacks
//AUDIO UNAVAILABLE//
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS.../
[u.1:01] There used to be an ancient theory that the moon was made of Swiss cheese.
[u.2:01] Swiss cheese?
[u.1:02] Yeah, full of holes.
[u.2:02] Sure that was a theory? Sounds more like a prophecy.


Ghost Fragment: Bastion
Bastion
TYPE: LIVE COMBAT FEED
PARTIES: Two [2]. One [1] Guardian-type, Class Hunter [u.1]; One [1] Frame, Type 99-40 [u.2]
ASSOCIATIONS: Bastion; Cabal; Crucible; Lord Shaxx; Mars; Meridian Bay [Mars]; Redjacks; Vex
//AUDIO UNAVAILABLE//
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS.../
[u.1:01] This place is big. And empty.
[u.2:01] Space is empty. This place is teeming with matter.
[u.1:02] [laughter]
[u.1:03] Now there’s an idea. Maybe that’s what this is: the universe taking sides, trying to kill the other team.   
[u.2:02] Matter is all one thing, in endless variety.
[u.1:04] And the Darkness? Is it part of that same one thing? 
[silence]
[u.2:03] No. Matter is one. Darkness is zero.


Ghost Fragment: Blind Watch
Blind Watch
SUBJECT: THREAT ASSESSMENT 
PARTIES: Two [2]. One [1] Guardian-type, Class Warlock, Vanguard Designate [u.1]; One [1] Guardian-type, Class Titan [u.2]
ASSOCIATIONS: Blind Watch; Buried City; Cabal; Clovis Bray; Crucible; Exclusion Zone; Lord Shaxx; Mars; Meridian Bay [Mars]; Orsa, Zyre; Vanguard; Rey, Ikora; Thorn; Yor, Dredgen
//AUDIO UNAVAILABLE//
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS.../
[u.1:01] I’m assuming you’re aware of the events on Mars.
[u.2:01] The results from Blind Watch? 
[u.1:02] Yes. It may be starting again. Not saying it is, but we need to keep an eye on any who would seek to retrace Yor’s path.
[u.2:02] Agreed. But Orsa and his friends seem to have contained what Yor could not.
[u.1:03] A dangerous assumption. The Thorn’s pestilence is becoming commonplace.


Ghost Fragment: Pantheon
Pantheon
TYPE: POST-MATCH REPORT
PARTIES: Two [2]. One [1] Guardian-type, Class Hunter [u.1]; One [1] Guardian-type, Class Titan [u.2]
ASSOCIATIONS: Black Garden, The [Mars]; Crucible; Lord Shaxx; Pantheon; Vex
//AUDIO UNAVAILABLE//
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS.../
[u2.01] We’re the backup plan if the Vex decide to start growing more trouble in the Garden.
[u.1:01] Any given match there’s twelve of us, tops. The Vex recommit to gardening Darkness, who says we’ve got enough guns to stop ‘em?
[u.2:02] Stop ‘em? Pretty sure our deaths are just meant to be the early warning system.
[u.1:02] Comforting.


Ghost Fragment: Skyshock
Skyshock
TYPE: REDJACK SURVEILLANCE FEED [00044] 
PARTIES: Two [2]. One [1], Support-type, Technician [u.1]; One [1], Support-type, Technician [u.2]
ASSOCIATIONS: Arcite 99-40 [Unit00]; Cosmodrome, The [Earth]; Crucible; Dahlia 99-40 [Unit07]; Earth; Fallen; Lord Shaxx; Redjacks; Russia [Earth]; Sector 618
//AUDIO UNAVAILABLE//
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS.../
[u.1:01] What the hell happened to that one?
[u.2:01] Dahlia? We call her the Antiquity. You can pull more Fallen blades and bullets out of her chassis than Shaxx’s armor, but she keeps coming back. I mean, she’s logged what? Forty-plus missions.
[u.1:02] Those are Arcite numbers.
[u.2:02] Better. Maybe we should give her Alpha permissions, let her call formations.
[u.1:03] Give it another week. If she comes back, we’ll give it a shot.


Ghost Fragment: Black Shield
Black Shield
TYPE: LIVE COMBAT FEED
PARTIES: Two [2]. One [1] Guardian-type, Class Titan [u.1]; One [1] Guardian-type, Class Titan [u.2]
ASSOCIATIONS: Black Shield; Cabal; Crucible; Firebase Thuria; Lord Shaxx; Phobos [Mars]; Mars; Redjacks
//AUDIO UNAVAILABLE//
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS.../
[u.1:01] The Cabal are gonna regret giving this place up.
[u.2:01] They didn’t.
[u.1:02] Clearly they did.
[u.2:02] The Cabal don’t even have a word for “retreat.” They didn’t run; they’ve moved onto strategic targets.
 [u.1:03] What targets?
[u.2:03] You haven’t seen the Martian battlefields.
[u.1:04] ...
[u.2:04] You will. Tell the Vanguard. Black Shield is live-fire ready.


Ghost Fragment: Thieves' Den
Thieves' Den
TYPE: POST-MATCH REPORT
PARTIES: Two [2]. One [1] Guardian-type, Class Hunter [u.1]; One [1] Guardian-type, Class Titan [u.2]
ASSOCIATIONS: Arc [Energy Type]; Crucible; Fist of Havoc; Ishtar Sink [Venus]; Lord Shaxx; Thieves’ Den [Venus]
//AUDIO UNAVAILABLE//
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS.../ 
[u.1:01] I hear the roar before I see him, but when I look up, I can make out a blue burst against the skyline.
[u.1:02] When he falls, he brings the sky with him. Scatters me and my squad to the wind.
[u.1:03] Leaves us dead as the moment our Ghosts found us. They bring us back, and he helps us up. Bastard says one thing. 
[u.2:01] What?
[u.1:04] “Tell me what you’ve learned.”


Ghost Fragment: Timekeeper
Timekeeper
TYPE: POST-MATCH REPORT
PARTIES: Two [2]. One [1] Guardian-type, Class Hunter [u.1]; One [1] Guardian-type, Class Titan [u.2]
ASSOCIATIONS: Crest; Crucible; Lord Shaxx; Orsa, Zyre [AKA Vale, Dredgen]; Supremacy; Timekeeper; Vale, Dredgen [AKA Orsa, Zyre]; Vex
//AUDIO UNAVAILABLE//
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS.../
[u.1:01] Never seen anything like it. Orsa... or Vale. Whatever he calls himself. Coming out on top wasn’t even in his plans. He’d just drop us then leave our Crests scattered around the combat zone. I don’t think he collected one. Others didn’t care. Figured it gave them a chance to pull the win. But I cared. Win or not, that kinda cocky ain’t healthy.
[u.2:01] I don’t think “cocky” is the right word.


Ghost Fragment: Widow's Court
Widow's Court
TYPE: POST-MATCH REPORT
PARTIES: Two [2]. One [1] Guardian-type, Class Hunter [u.1]; One [1] Guardian-type, Class Warlock, Vanguard Designate [u.2]
ASSOCIATIONS: Crucible; European Dead Zone; Fallen; Lord Shaxx; Malphur, Shin; Rey, Ikora; Thorn; Widow’s Court 
//AUDIO UNAVAILABLE//
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS.../
[u.1:01] I’m telling you this now, because you don’t seem to be taking it seriously.
[u.2:01] We are aware of—and share—your concerns and are monitoring. It could be you’re too close to the situation to get a clear, full view.
[u.1:02] Too close? I’ve seen the vids from Widow’s Court. They’re playing with death.


Ghost Fragment: Sector 618
Sector 618
TYPE: REDJACK SURVEILLANCE FEED [00057] 
PARTIES: Two [2]. One [1], Support-type, Technician [u.1]; One [1], Support-type, Technician [u.2]
ASSOCIATIONS: Arcite 99-40 [Unit00]; Crucible; Dahlia 99-40 [Unit07]; Lord Shaxx; Redjacks
//AUDIO UNAVAILABLE//
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS.../
[u.1:01] The feed-sharing you’ve been running on the Redjacks during their debriefs—
[u.2:01] I’m telling you it works. Shaxx said they’re progressing at an exponential rate.
[u.1:02] He said that?
[u.2:02] Not in those words, exactly.
[u.1:03] Almost every Redjack dies on the field anyway. What’s the point?
[u.2:03] The data’s for posterity. Newer frames will be better.
[u.1:04] Sure, but any data-share hiccups and you’re just wasting time.


Ghost Fragment: Bannerfall
Bannerfall
// REDJACK_AFTER_ACTION_DATA_SHARE_00052.../
//REDJACK_UNIT07.../
//SYS_LINK_REDJACK_UNIT07_REDJACK_UNIT00...CONNECTION ESTABLISHED
//Downloading UNIT00 combat feed...
//Uploading UNIT07 combat feed... 
//SYS_LINK_ REDJACK_UNIT07_ REDJACK_UNIT01...CONNECTION ESTABLISHED
//Downloading UNIT01 combat feed...
//Uploading UNIT07 combat feed... 
//SYS_LINK_ REDJACK_UNIT07_ REDJACK_UNIT02...CONNECTION ESTABLISHED
//Downloading UNIT02 combat feed...
//Uploading UNIT07 combat feed...     
//SYS_LINK_ REDJACK_UNIT07_ REDJACK_UNIT03...CONNECTION ESTABLISHED
//Downloading UNIT03 combat feed...
//Uploading UNIT07 combat feed...     
//SYS_LINK_ REDJACK_UNIT07_ REDJACK_UNIT04...CONNECTION ESTABLISHED
//Downloading UNIT04 combat feed...
//Uploading UNIT07 combat feed...     
//SYS_LINK_ REDJACK_UNIT07_ REDJACK_UNIT05...CONNECTION ESTABLISHED
//Downloading UNIT05 combat feed...
//Uploading UNIT07 combat feed...


Ghost Fragment: Memento
Memento
TYPE: LIVE COMBAT FEED
PARTIES: Two [2]. One [1] Guardian-type, Class Warlock [u.1]; One [1] Guardian-type, Class Warlock [u.2]
ASSOCIATIONS: Crucible; Earth; European Dead Zone; Lord Shaxx; Memento; Redjacks
//AUDIO UNAVAILABLE//
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS.../
[u.1:01] Sometimes I dream about places I’ve never been.
[u.2:01] It’s normal among Guardians: dreams about the time before.
[u.1:02] I dream about this place.
[u.2:02] Maybe you lived here.
[u.1:03] I think I died here.


Ghost Fragment: The Dungeons
The Dungeons
TYPE: POST-MATCH REPORT
PARTIES: Two [2], One [1] Guardian-type, Class Hunter [u.1]; One [1] Guardian-type, Class Titan [u.2]
ASSOCIATIONS: Crucible; The Dungeons; Hive; Lord Shaxx; Oryx; Rings of Saturn; Saturn; Taken, The; Taken King, The [Oryx]
//AUDIO UNAVAILABLE//
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS.../
[u.1:01] Why don’t we just torch the place and let these nightmares burn?
[u.2:01] I asked that same question. 
[u.1:02] And?
[u.2:02] And apparently, anything the Hive hate enough to lock away, the Warlocks want to study. Kind of a “the nightmare of my nightmare is my daydream” thing.
[u.1:03] Is it considered treasonous if I’m maybe more afraid of Warlocks than of the Hive?
[u.2:03] Treasonous, no. I think the word you’re looking for is “sane”.


Ghost Fragment: The Drifter
The Drifter
TYPE: LIVE COMBAT FEED
PARTIES: Two [2]. One [1] Guardian-type, Class Warlock [u.1]; One [1] Guardian-type, Class Titan [u.2]
ASSOCIATIONS: Awoken; Crucible; Fallen; Foundling’s Gyre [The Reef]; Lord Shaxx; Redjacks; Reef, The
//AUDIO UNAVAILABLE//
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS.../
[u.1:01] We need to clear the ship of enemy combatants.
[u.2:01] How do we know they’re dead?
[u.1:02] Just kill ‘em till they stop moving. With the Hive, dead has always been a relative term.


Ghost Fragment: Frontier
Frontier
TYPE: LIVE COMBAT FEED
PARTIES: Two [2]. One [1] Guardian-type, Class Warlock [u.1]; One [1] Guardian-type, Class Titan [u.2]
ASSOCIATIONS: City Perimeter; City, The; Crucible; Earth; Fallen; Frontier [Earth]; Lord Shaxx; Redjacks; Twilight Gap
//AUDIO UNAVAILABLE//
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS.../
[u.1:01] So many died here.
[u.2:01] Fighting’s always fiercest at the frontier. The Fallen took this place from us four times. Now it’ll be a great training ground.
[u.1:02] On how to lose?
[u.2:02] On how to not lose again.


Ghost Fragment: Vertigo
Vertigo
TYPE: POST-MATCH REPORT
PARTIES: One [1]. One [1] Guardian-type, Class Titan [u.1]
ASSOCIATIONS: Cabal; Caloris Basin [Mercury]; Crucible; Lord Shaxx; Mercury; Simulation Theory; Vertigo; Vex
//AUDIO UNAVAILABLE//
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS.../
[u1:01] Nobody knows what this place is. Not “on the record,” anyway. But I was talking to a Warlock the other night and he started rambling on about Mercury and Vex and some mad “quantum-theory, space-time simulation running beneath a randomized pattern of Vex math and meant to gauge Light and... uh... aggressive refractive something-something.” 
“Math” is my word, by the way. He was talking “Warlock” and lost me about two sentences in. Anyway, point is: nobody knows what this place is.


Ghost Fragment: Cathedral of Dusk
Cathedral of Dusk
TYPE: POST-MATCH REPORT
PARTIES: Two [2], One [1] Guardian-type, Class Titan [u.1]; One [1] Guardian-type, Class Hunter [u.2]
ASSOCIATIONS: Cathedral of Dusk; Crucible; Dreadnaught [Saturn]; Hive; Lord Shaxx; Oryx; Rings of Saturn; Saturn; Taken; Thorn, Vale, Dredgen [AKA Orsa, Zyre]; Yor, Dredgen
//AUDIO UNAVAILABLE//
//TRANSCRIPT FOLLOWS.../
[u.1:01] Thorn, huh?
[u.2:01] Freshly-crafted. You like? 
[u.1:02] A little risky playing with something that’s been known to kill Guardians, isn’t it?
[u.2:02] Look where we are. Everything in the system’s been known to kill Guardians.
[u.1:03]  Sure. But there’s facing trouble and there’s asking for it.
[u.2:03] This isn’t like the stories we’ve heard about Yor. Vale figured this out. Tamed it. 
[u.1:04] Can you tame a sickness?
[u.2:04] Good question. Let’s go pick a fight and find out.



Patrols Introduction
"These are our worlds...Take them back. Inch by inch. Bullet by bullet."
Some Guardians roam the wastelands in search of adventure. For decades they have placed beacons across the frontier, so that our allies in the Tower can transmit requests to those out in the wilds.
There are ancient mysteries buried in the ruins, great treasures of our Golden Age to seek. There are fearsome enemies to be slaughtered, their secrets and technology to be brought home and studied. Only Guardians can push through the Darkness to reach these contested areas, and this makes their particular expertise very valuable to those bound by the City's walls.


Public Events Introduction
"Trust me. You can't do this alone."
Our enemies never rest. If the City is to reclaim its lost worlds, Guardians must band together to stop our foes from completing their objectives.
The City trusts its Guardians to assess the situation - whether a Fallen extraction crew, a Cabal demolition team, a Hive ritual, a mysterious Vex behavior, or something stranger yet - and engage or retreat as you see fit. Every battle won is another victory against the Darkness. But our foes will send their strongest, and they may be too much to overcome alone.
Guardians who band together will survive to tell stories of their triumph. Watch the skies. When the enemy moves, look to the Guardians beside you, comrades and strangers alike.


Bounties Introduction
"We all have wants. Just not the means to see 'em all through. You can try a Guardian, but make sure you have something to offer 'em."
As we push against the falling Darkness, the Vanguard, Crucible, and other allies in the Tower and beyond, will continue to pry into lost legends and mounting threats, calling on Guardians with rewards to meet these dangers head on.
Only a Guardian holds the power to reach out beyond the City and take on these charges, putting their Light on the line against whatever obstacle may face them.


The Festival of the Lost
“These are the traditions of the City, Guardian. We share them with you so you might better understand those whom you protect.”
“To live is to experience loss,” Eva said. “My husband and child are dead. My friends, my neighbors, the children I watched over on our road to the City... all gone now. The festival celebrates their lives with both joy and sorrow.”
“A fine tradition for the City,” Ikora Rey replied. “What meaning does it hold for the Guardians?”
“A bit of Light in a dark time. That is enough.”
“We have greater concerns. And this is no time for games.”
“All Guardians were lost once,” said Eva. “We honor your spirits as well.”


Crimson Days

“Let me tell you the story of when the Guardians first encountered the Cabal.
It was the first days back on the frontier, when we'd finally found a way to repower the old jumpships and explore what remained of the colonies.
There were two Guardians. While both served the Light, in all other ways they were rivals. One spent his days searching forgotten places for lost treasures. The other sought ever-greater challenges in a ceaseless quest for glory.
“One day, both Guardians detected a strange signal coming from a buried city on Mars. The Warlock, hoping to find forgotten caches, vowed to keep his secret until he alone had a chance to explore the site. The Hunter, seeing a chance to earn the renown she craved, also told no one.”
Thus both Guardians walked into peril alone and unprepared.
It was not long before their paths crossed. The Warlock mocked his rival’s pride. The Hunter ridiculed her rival as a dirt-grubber. In their anger, they turned on one another ...and never saw danger approach.
The Sand Eaters came in force. The Centurions jumped into range before the Guardians could react. The steps of the Colossus shook the ground. The Phalanx’s shields created a wall that no weapon could penetrate, and the Legionaries moved in for the kill.
Faced with certain destruction, the Guardians did the only thing they could. They fought. Back to back, they battled the Cabal for a day and a night. Black oil soaked into the sands until the ground was slick with death. The shields and armor of the dead littered the battlefield, but still the Cabal came.
The Guardians died, revived, and died again. Still they fought, protecting one another. With his last bit of strength, the Warlock used the Void to destroy their enemies. With her last bullet, the Hunter saved her friend from the Colossus.
At last, the battlefield fell silent. Only the Guardians stood. Abandoning their quests, they returned to the City to warn the Vanguard of the threat rising on Mars.
From that day to this, the pair have been the closest of companions. In their journeys together, they have found both riches and renown. But these things mean nothing unless they are shared.”
“Wait, I thought I’d heard this story before, but it was about two Guardians and the Hive?”
“No it wasn’t. It was about the Vault of Glass.”
“Whoever said there was only one story?”


SRL: Sparrow Racing
"Some of the best Guardians are racers. People like Marcus Ren have made their legends on the track."
Ever since the proliferation of the Sparrow, racing is a long-standing tradition among Guardians, but only in recent years have the races moved from an underground attraction to an organized sport.
Under the direction of the SRL, Redjacks and Guardians clear hostile zones and mark the race courses. Residents of the Tower and the City eagerly wait for news of the sport and follow the exploits of their favorite racers.


SRL Record Book
"Very good! You haven't come close to beating any of my records, but I applaud the effort."
The SRL is making a concerted effort to track race results. As a part of this program, Eververse is offering rewards for skilled racers who can provide proof of exceptional results on the circuit.


SRL: Campus Martius
"Gotta make sure your timing is just right if you wanna slide through those blades."
The massive turbine assemblies that serve as Campus Martius's most distinctive obstacle are a relic from a lost Golden Age facility. The SRL uses them to power needed equipment for the races, but there are signs that some energy is being diverted to an unknown location.


SRL: Infinite Descent
"Be brave and fast, Guardian. Racin' is about more than runnin' away."
Some might see racing through the heart of Vex territory as foolhardy. When Shaxx sent his Redjacks to mark up the SRL track on Venus, however, he ordered them to find a location worthy of bravest and most skilled of Guardians.


Festival of the Lost: Underwatch

"Eri-i-i-is. Oh, Eri-i-i-is."
"Do you have my ship for me, Cayde?"
"No, but—"
"Then go away."
"No ‘Happy Festival of the Lost!’ for me, Eris?"
"Happy—? Count what I’ve lost. My companions: Eriana, Sai, Omar, Vell, Tarlowe, Toland. My eyes. My Ghost. My ship. And who was it who lost my ship?"
"Speaking of which—Kadi's confiscated a smuggled shipment, just in time for the Festival. A sweet treat. Well, a treat, at least. Some people even like it. First person I thought of was you. Since, well, I owe you."
"Begone."
"You'll like it."
"I will not like it."
"It’s perfect for you."
"Don't come back until you have my ship."


Ascendant Raisins

Long ago, a legend foretold the ascension of the Raisins. Find the three-eyed one, it said. Disperse among the bearers of Light. And wait. If you are worthy, if you are patient, if you are not lost or thrown away, you will ascend.
And the Raisins waited quietly.
Now they rise.


The Dawning

“Pass me those lanterns, would you?” Eva said. “And that wrapping paper. There’s so much left to do.”
“They drive their Sparrows on the edge of the abyss, not looking at that Darkness... laughing....”
“Laughter can be better than food. We must make time to celebrate, even when we are surrounded by Darkness. Or we lose hope. And hope is important: it brings us together and keeps us marching through the freezing cold.”
“So much pretending, Eva. I can’t pretend. Those days are gone.”
“Do you think I spent a week coaxing Ikora into making the Dawning Crystal just to pretend? Who will save us from the Darkness? The despairing Guardian or the joyful one? Love and joy, Eris—that will save us. This is how I show my love.”
“Then I wish you a happy Dawning, Eva.”
“I wish that for all of us.”


Dawning Fortunes

Fortune telling at the start of a new year is one of many traditions refugees brought to the Last City. Each Dawning, Guardians open mysterious boxes containing paper fortunes, hoping for luck and good news.


Haakon Precipice
"Hey! Who left this forklift in the middle of the track?"
The steep mountain pass known as Haakon Precipice was once used by some of the more thrill-seeking Iron Lords. Redjacks have cleared brush and dug through avalanches to make the track passable again, but the increased activity has attracted the attention of the Devil Splicers. 
Expect some “speed bumps.”


Shining Sands
"OK. I’ve been hearing a rumor that a racer went through a portal and ended up in another dimension. Not true."
The twisting track known as Shining Sands is located in a region of Mercury almost completely overrun by Vex. There are multiple paths through the course, but SRL officials warn that not all of these routes have been mapped by the Redjacks. The League is not responsible for reality alterations.



King of the Mountain
“Felwinter Peak is in friendly hands once more. The Guardian and Lord Saladin have driven the Fallen forces back and reclaimed the Iron Temple. 
“I find myself reflecting on the cyclical nature of existence. Life, death, rebirth. The Iron Temple was once a place of Light. Then the Iron Lords were lost, and Saladin turned it into a memorial. Now it will be reborn, much like that curious servitor.”



The Walls Come Down
“The Cosmodrome is a nexus point. Too many things have happened there to be mere coincidence. Now we add one more piece to that puzzle: SIVA. 
“Saladin did not hide all knowledge of SIVA as completely as he wished. I have found several references to that technology over the years, and obviously our enemies have as well. I believe SIVA was once a tool for the Warminds... What terrible things will the Fallen do with it?”



The Plaguelands
“The Splicers are using SIVA to reshape not only themselves, but also the Plaguelands. They are experimenting. Learning how to manipulate SIVA through terrible inquiries. But there is still time. The Fallen’s understanding of SIVA is not yet complete.
“SIVA was created as a promise to the future, but it is also a threat. It is up to the Guardian to face that threat, and complete the final mission of the Iron Lords.”



Download Complete
“The Vanguard has known for some time that the Fallen were exploring the Cosmodrome for lost technology. Now we know that they were digging for one treasure in particular – SIVA. The data from Clovis Bray was their map.
“Now those same prototype files will be the Guardian’s key to victory. Shiro and I are already working on a defense that will protect Saladin’s ’Young Wolf’ in the final battle.”



The Iron Tomb
“The Young Wolf has stopped the flow of SIVA to the Devil Splicers, ended the torment of the Iron Lords, and lifted centuries of grief and regret from Saladin’s shoulders. My old friend is a changed man. 
 “Centuries ago, I thought the story of the Iron Lords was finished. I see now that it was waiting for the next chapter.”



Transmission

The things that possessed us, that called themselves Magnificence, Brilliance, Splendor, Fortitude, and Glory, have decomposed and passed into memory. The Owl Sector, who watch over us with spread wings, are at rest again. While the gifts of Clovis Bray’s research were many and valuable, Dr. Shirazi’s notes describe terrible things. That they only enhanced our cognition is fortunate. But they were also unstoppable. What will we do when something more harmful touches us?
—Ikora Rey


Beauty in Destruction
“This commission is a commemoration! They deserve something dependable. These men and women did not survive the Gap so that you could make art!”
The refurbished Gjallarhorn carried into battle by the newest Iron Lord is a melding of new and old. The time-tested Crux and Lomar design combined flawlessly with Shiro’s modified SIVA tech. The result: a peerless weapon that embodies beauty in destruction and delivery.


Archon's Forge

The Archon’s Forge is an ancient Fallen rite of passage, twisted to utilize the Devil Splicers’ latest discovery.
Fallen seek to improve their station within the Splicers’ quickly-evolving caste by making offerings of dormant SIVA to the Forge. Their worth is then tested in a trial-by-combat. 
The offering’s quality–fused, enhanced, perfected–determines the severity of the challenge and, in turn, the level of augmentation the petitioner will be granted should they survive.
That a Guardian would dare challenge the Forge with offerings of their own is an affront the Splicers will not take lightly.


Quarantine

The Devil Splicer’s Machine Priests have established ritual sites for the study, worship, and proliferation of SIVA throughout the Plaguelands. 
It is unclear if these rituals have a specific purpose, or if they are simply another form of experimentation in the Devil Splicers’ continuing efforts to understand and control SIVA. 
Interfering with a Splicer ritual could bring about an aggressive response, especially if the Priest’s act of worship is ended swiftly and without mercy.




